Composition is a technique in which you just add a bunch of elements into a scene and make them look like they all belong [music] together. First, get your clips. Okay, I'm going to use this one. First thing you need to do in your clip is remove the background. Whenever you want to remove the background of a moving clip, you're going to use this tool. Okay, it's it's called Roto Brush tool. You see this?

It's pretty simple to use. First of all, pre-compose your clip. Okay, press control shift C to pre-compose. Click on here and then just press okay. Then double-click on this layer and then you're going to use the tool. If you don't do this step, there are chances that there might be errors in your clip and in your mask. So, do this, then click on this option and then double-click on this layer and now you just have to draw on your subject. I draw here and you can see that there are these pink lines. These pink lines means the subject has been masked. You can also see them clearer if you click on this red icon. Now, you can see what's masked and what's not. Just draw whatever you want to mask and you want to mask it very very well. Okay,

you mask everything. This eye, this leg, uh this sword. Mask everything that you want to mask, okay? That you want to keep on your layer, right? The red part will be removed. It will be transparent. Once you're done masking, press control right arrow to move one frame ahead and then the app will try its best to keep the mask, but if you want to make some corrections, you can just go here and then press alt to go to the red part or the eraser part and then draw whatever you want to erase from your clip, right?

I draw a lot by mistake, so I'll just draw over it. And now it'll be added back. But let's say I want to remove the this hair. I'll press alt and then draw over this. Hair is removed. Okay, it's just that simple. You do this for every single layer and then click on this freeze option. Okay, it's important because if you don't freeze them, then the mask will be messy and it'll just it'll it'll it'll just it will just be a big issue. So, freeze them and then just wait for it to be frozen. And there are chances that your clip might have this gap after you use the rotoscope. Just pull it back. Okay, just pull this back. It's it's it's not a big deal. This is kind of what it should look like you do the rotoscope and everything. Now, see, there are these

these lines around it. Ideally, you should not have those, but I'm way too lazy to do all that shit. So, yeah, we have to work with this. Now, you have your clip. Okay, this is your foreground. Okay, now what you need is a background because obviously you cannot have a black background. Background could be anything. It could be rainy, it could be forest, whatever whatever you want to add in your scene.

Okay, in my case, I'm going to add a fire. Okay, so I have this clip of fire forest type something. So, let me just show you. This is my clip. Okay, I'll just put that in here. And yeah, that's how that's how my clip looks. Okay, I'll just put it like this and delete. I know you're probably thinking where do you find these clips? Don't worry about it. I got you. There's this website called Pexels.

It's it's pretty popular. Okay, just go here and then search whatever you want to search. I searched for fire forest and I got all these results. You can use this one, this, this, and you can browse more. Okay, you can search for a lot of clips in here and then just click download and it'll be downloaded. It's just that simple. Okay, now our clips look like this. Okay, it's it's it's really ass.

I'm not going to lie. It looks like shit. But, we're going to make it look like not shit. Let's start with editing our background. Okay, I'm going to just hide this layer for a second. Now, let's edit our background. I'm going to add deep glow on here. You can decrease the exposure a little bit.

Increase radius and yeah. Now, you can add a curve. Okay, let's just add curve and you can play with these settings right here. For now, just add whatever you can adjust them later as well, but I think this looks pretty good. This is without effects. This is with effects. Okay, it looks pretty cool. It looks pretty cool. Then, let's enable the foreground layer. Now, let's add a shadow.

Shadow is very important in a composition. Okay, it has to go along. To make a good shadow, first you have to see where the light is coming from. In this case, the light is coming from there behind. That is all right. The light is in the back. So, the shadow should be on front. Let me just show you how to make it, then you can understand.

Firstly, add drop shadow. And then, increase the opacity to 100 for now for the visibility and then increase distance and softness. Now, it looks like shit. I'm not going to deny that, but trust the process. Okay, go here and click on the shadow only option. Now, the image is gone and it's shadow only. Then, you're going to add set matte. Okay, or set matte. I don't know what that whatever, right? Set matte. Then, you're going to add CC composite. Okay, CC composite.

Go to composite original. Click on multiply, then uncheck this. Okay, and now you have this. Let's just Let's just decrease the brightness a little bit. Yeah, and now you can adjust it however you want. I'm going to just make the distance like this and then softness a little bit more. I think that's fire. Like the shadow, it looks pretty cool. Now, what these do is this thing as the shadow, this thing sets the matte. Okay, what that means is it doesn't let the shadow go outside of this part. okay? If I disable this, you can see the shadow is going out, right?

But if I enable this, the shadow stays inside, so it looks cleaner, okay? And what this does is this adds the image below the shadow layer, right? So, you can see without this, it's just shadow, but with it, it's shadow with image, okay? So, I hope you understand. Now we're done with shadows, let's add some colors.

Colors are very important. You You have to have good colors, okay? There are three ways you can add them. First is tint or duotone, second is tritone, and then there's this level method, okay? First, let's do the tint. Let's just add tint on here, and then it becomes black and white, but go here, click on the black eyedropper tool, and use the dark color of your background, okay? In my case, it's like this dark red or brown something. Then go here again and click on the white eyedropper this time and use the light color of your background.

It should be like this, I guess. It's too dark, so I I think I just drop it, you know, like do this, and then if you want, you can also use the contrast, like just use curve, and then tweak the contrast a little bit to make it look like it belongs together and stuff. Another way to do this is to use tritone instead of tint, okay? Let me just disable the curve for now and delete tint, and now we're going to add tritone.

Right? It's basically just tint, but with more control, okay? In tint, you just have black and white, but in this, you have black, white, and then something in the middle, right? So, there are highlights, shadows, and midtones. And just click on the midtones eyedropper tool and use, I think, this color, and then you can also just mess around with the color, whatever color you want use. Uh I think this one looks pretty cool. And uh use this slider to blend the opacity and even this looks pretty cool. Okay, like in this you don't really need curves because the highlights and shadows are essentially working like curves, but if you want you can add some curves on top as well. It's completely on you. Just spend some time on finding the right color and you'll be fine. You'll be fine. Okay? Now, in some cases these are

not enough. You know, like just the curves and duotone tritone, it's not enough. So, you have to step up a little bit and use levels. Okay, let me just search for levels. Now, using this is pretty complicated. I mean, it's not complicated, but it's like very messy, you know? You have to do a lot of shit and it takes a lot of time. But, in this you have the most control. Okay? You can see there's this histogram on here. I don't know what that does, but it's there and there are these values. If you move these values, you'll see that it's making your clip darker and lighter.

Okay, depending on what you move. Just these two, okay? Not the other ones. Just these two. It that they're enough. Right now, the channel is RGB. That's why it's messing with the light and dark parts. But, if you go here and change it to red or green or blue and then mess it, you will see that it's changing colors now. Not just brightness, it's changing colors and that's how you're going to add color on your clip. Okay? And the right technique to use this is to click here and here and then use the same channel as your levels. Okay, so in here we have red.

I'm going to use red. You will see it's all black and white. Now, you just have to match the black and white of this part to the black and white of the background. You can see the dark parts on the background are this dark, okay? And the dark part on the foreground, which is our shadow, are not this black.

So, we're just going to move this until they are that black. Okay? Like this. Now, let's see the light parts. The light parts are this bright and in our clip, they are not this bright, right? Look at this. They are kind of grayish. So, we're going to go to the white parameter and then move this until it's that bright. Okay? Okay.

Now, let's go back here and move it to green and then go here and move this to green. Now, look at this. The dark parts are so dark. We have to match the darkness. So, we'll just go here and I think this is dark enough, but we'll we'll correct it later. And the light parts are not that light. So, you know, like something like this, I guess. Then again, go to the blue and then blue here. In the background of blue channel, both light and dark parts are very dark. It's like it's almost black. Okay? So, you just have to make your foreground black as well.

Now, let's just go here and click on RGB to see how it looks. Okay? You ready? Holy shit. I don't know about you all, but I feel like that looks pretty cool. Now, you can adjust this however you like as well. Okay? If if it's too dark for you, just go to the red channel because this is mostly red. Okay? Go to the red channel and change it to however you like it. Okay? This is a little bit darker. Okay? And you can then change this as well.

You know, this is a little bit more darker. It's less red and more neutral tone, right? More original tone. But me personally, I liked how this looks. Okay? So, I'm just going to use that. Now, it's time for overlays and it's really not rocket science. Just dump your overlays on here. Okay? I have this overlay of uh sparkles or sparky thingy. It also has glow on here, so I'm going to use that and just put it here. click on this toggle switches button and use this thing and change it to screen. I'm not going to lie, that looks so fire, yo. That's fire. You can also use curves in overlays if you want to make them look, you know, less visible

or more visible. Okay, it depends on you how you like it. I like the default, so I'm just going to use that. Then I have another overlay of this fog type thing. I'm going to use that as well. Okay, just again, same thing. Click on the mode screen. That's all. Again, you can use the curves to make them look more dark or light or whatever and you can also use tint to make your smoke look a little reddish or, you know, whatever your scene demands. I'm not going to do it, but you can just add tritone.

Select your color and then just blend with the original. See, just that's it. Okay? By the way, we're not done yet. Okay, we have stuff to do still. Now, look at this scene and all you see is flames and fire and stuff. Whenever there's flames, there are heat waves. So, let's make that on the background.

Okay, it's it's pretty simple to make. Add an adjustment layer and then put it above the background. Okay, above the background, not on here, above the background. Okay? Then add turbulent displacement or turbulent displace. Let me just hide all these layers so you can see what we're talking about. Decrease the size. Not not this much. Maybe maybe like 18 and the amount keep the amount like 66 or 60 65, whatever. Okay? And then keyframe evolution and then go to the end of your clip and increase the evolution to however much you like. Okay?

Let's play it and see how it looks. You can see it. Look. Look. This is without. It's like it's it's dead, you know, nothing's happening. It's it's technically dead. And with the turbulent displace, this is how it looks. If it feels like it's too fast, just go to the end of your clip and then just decrease the revolution. Now it will move a little bit slower. You can also mess with this size.

And you know, it also affects a little bit, but that's on you. I like how it looks. I'll keep this one. Now let's enable all the layers and see how it looks like. Look, there's this wobble in the background. It makes your clip look more lively. Okay? This is without. And this is with. Now our scene is almost done. Okay? But there are few more effects that you can add which will make your clip look even better. I'm going to just add them very quickly. Add an adjustment layer and put it above all the other clips. In this we're going to add deep glow.

You can use normal glow as well. Okay, you can use normal glow if you don't have the plugin, it's fine. Disable the exposure, of course, because you don't you don't you don't want all that. And if you want, you can increase the radius to however. This adds this glow and realistically when you look at fire, there is glow around it. So it helps that way. Then add another adjustment layer or just duplicate this and delete the effect. In this you can add heat wave. Okay? This is literally made for the fire like scenes. Okay? It's it's literally called heat wave. Look at the difference it makes. It also gives this little bit of blurry like effect. If you can see this, it's so good. Another effect that make it looks better is shine. Okay, just add shine on here and then decrease the opacity. Like 45.

Something, whatever your scene allows. Just do It looks pretty good. It looks pretty good this way, okay? The only single thing this lacks is movement, okay? There's not enough movement. It's like What What the hell's this? So, to add movement, just add wiggle, okay? Just add adjustment layer and then add wiggle on this of position, wiggle position. And then just decrease the wiggle amount and slightly increase the wiggle speed and just see how it looks.

Yeah, see? This has so much more life to it than just this Oh, fuck. Not Not this. Than just this. You know? Like this is This is like What the fuck's this? But, when I do this, this is like What the fuck is this? You know what Now, there's this black border type thing and you just add motion tile, you know? Motion tile and then increase this a little bit, this a little bit mirror edge and put the motion tile above your position and wiggle, right? And now you'll see Okay, let's load. Right.

You'll see After adding motion tile, it might get a little lower because it messes up with the values, but just move it a little bit, okay? Mess around a little bit. Now, look at this. This is so fire. And the last effect that I would add is toner. So, add an adjustment layer and then you can add CC toner. Now, look. This is used as a way to color correct your scene. Like my scene was too red, okay? So, I'll just go to my clip and then disable CC toner for now. Go to midtones and select like this color and then enable toner again.

And then I'm going to adjust the color of my scene. Yeah, like this. And then I'm also going to go here and blend with original, okay? Because like the whole tone it doesn't it doesn't feel right. Just adjust this however you want. Uh I think this looks fine. And yeah, there you have it, okay? There you have it. Well, I think that's all for this tutorial. I guess if you want to learn something else like shakes and all then comment. I'll try to make the tutorial on that.