With After Effects Beta's new built-in tools, you could create composites that are out of this world. So, Adobe just dropped a bomb on the new beta build. We're talking AI-driven object mat instead of the rotor brush. It has a new 3D workspace that actually feels fast. So, no more spending hours working with rotoscoping and 3D objects.

It's so much faster. It's time to actually take a deep dive into this. Okay, so I'm in After Effects Beta and I have a clip here of a couple astronauts on Mars or whatever planet this is with a spaceship kind of landing. Really cool shot. My plan is to use some new features in After Effects Beta like the 3D elements and the object mat tool to create a really kind of cool sort of moon in the background. And in order to do that, I have to roto all of my objects and subjects in the foreground.

So, let's get started. So, typically what I would do is I would click on my layer and I would go to layer, open layer. This is going to open this in the layer panel. And then up here, I'm going to grab my object mat tool. And as you see as I hover over my spaceship or my subject, you see it kind of lights up as did the old rotor brush tool. So, I'll just select that.

And when I select that, if I go down to my object mat in my composition and I go down to selections, the good thing is now that it kind of selects objects, you can actually rename these. So, now I have much better recognition in terms of where my subjects and everything is. So, I have my spaceship there. I'll probably have to go back and refine it cuz of the dust and smoke, but I'll just move on. Now I have my subject.

And we'll skip ahead a little bit in the composition and we'll grab astronaut two. And you see when I label astronaut two, if I skip ahead in time, you see the object mat disappears. To fix that, all I have to do is go to my astronaut two and I'm just going to take this path and I'm going to drag it all the way across the timeline. Same thing for my astronaut one and my spaceship just in case.

If I look over in the effect controls, one other thing I could do is select use motion blur because this is a moving shot. There's a really quick-moving spaceship and a lot of smoke and dust. So, we're going to select that. So, I could scrub through here and looking at my toggle alpha, my subjects look pretty good. Now I just have to tackle my area here. And unfortunately, the smoke and the dust is not really a subject or an object. So, it's not going to pick that up too good. So, what I can do is I can go to my quick selection tool, which is my rotor brush. I'm just going to make this pretty big and I'm going to select kind of the big part here.

And this side doesn't really matter too much because like I said before, I'm going to put a moon kind of around right around here. So, just making sure that my horizon and foreground are all selected, I could go ahead and use the refine edge tool to kind of hit this edge here getting all like the smoke, adding a nice feather to the edge.

So, it's not such a hard edge when we look at it. So, now we'll go to my toggle alpha. That looks pretty good. It's really picking up the kind of translucent smoke. I can make this a little bigger if I want just to add a little bit more of that smoke. There we go. That looks good. And then when I'm done with my roto part, I could actually just hit freeze and that will freeze this. So, it will prevent it from propagating every time you move it. What I like to do instead of freezing it, I like to actually just I like to pre-render it.

So, I'm going to go to composition pre-render. And on the drop-down here, I'm going to make sure this is lossless with alpha and I'm going to call this alpha. Save that. We'll render that out real quick. Okay, so [snorts] I have my alpha that is done exporting. You see it did a good job overall. Basically got what I needed done. It did a really good job. So, we're going to go with that. So, now we're going to use this bottom layer here. We're going to bring this back. We have our object mat effect off, so it doesn't take up our RAM and we're going to call this background. Okay. So, now basically our object has to go between these two layers. So, now After Effects Beta has these new features where you could actually create objects in your scene. As long as you're using the advanced 3D renderer, then you could go ahead and use this and you can create

all kinds of crazy objects. You could rotate them, create a donut if you want. And that's not all. So, I'm going to show you some cool stuff you could do with it. Most high-end brand visual systems cost thousands and months of back and forth. But if you're limited on time and budget, then listen up. Skywork AI sponsored this video, so I decided to give it a try. It's one of those few AI tools that can give you that Hollywood vibe really fast and on a budget. So, powered by Google Gemini's Nano Banana model, the free plan includes Nano Banana 2 for standard tasks. Upgrading to the plus plan unlocks Nano Banana Pro for advanced capabilities. Upload reference materials for brand alignment and export production-ready PNG, JPEG, or PDF files. It's more like a complete design workspace than just a generator.

Most AI tools rely on hope, which is not a real workflow. As a creator or a founder, you need a design agent capable of precision and layer-based control. Skywork allows you to split elements instantly separating the background, subject, and text into independent layers. It feels like a $500 PSD file that just generated itself. You could change out your text easily with the edit text feature.

And if one detail is off, use inpainting. Highlight the area, refine the lighting or the outfit, and keep the rest of your brand's visual DNA untouched. So, switching to Skywork AI is a no-brainer if you spend 10 plus hours a week on repetitive design. So, you could try the free tier, but the plus plan offers the best value with unlimited exports and the latest models.

This early-stage pricing definitely won't last, so use the link below for an extra 20% off to lock it in. Skywork is truly the first service that actually made me cancel other subscriptions because of how impressive it is. And that's the strongest endorsement that I could really give. So, get a 20% off discount via the link below. Check it out now. I'm going to start with the basic sphere.

Nice and big cuz this is going to be the size of the moon, literally. We're going to bring it backwards in Z space. So, that's probably about that size. Now we're going to bring it under our alpha like I said. So, now it's kind of living in the background there and we can resize it if we want, but I think that's pretty good size right there. So, obviously now we have to add some stuff to it to make it blend. So, first thing we're going to do is down here over here in the properties panel, you see there's a lot of different options that you haven't seen before. So, over here under material, it has default, which is kind of this boring blah gray. But if I click on these three lines here, I can click on get substance community assets. This is going to open up Substance 3D assets from Adobe and you could actually check free assets here and you could download

some really cool free elements. Okay, so as you can see there's a whole bunch of different textures and other stuff you could use. I'm going to use the most obvious one, moon surface. So, I'm going to download that. But you're not just limited to that. You can make some really cool things, rocks, pebbles, anything you could think of. Just your imagination is the limit. So, I'm going to bring that moon surface into my project. As long as it's in your project, all you need to do is go to material and now you could select it.

So, now what that does is that actually just applies it right to your object. And if I twirl it around here, you see it's a whole entire 3D object with the moon surface attached to it. Really cool stuff. And then obviously I could add some other stuff to it like this displacement option is a really cool thing where I can kind of like change the shape of stuff. So, let's say you wanted to add like a rock to mimic like something like this, right?

So, you would add a cube to it. But the cube, I mean obviously the shape is too square. So, that's where the displacement option comes in handy because you can make it imperfect. You could change the height and the depth. You could change the material assignment. If you want to make it look a little bit different, you could kind of change the texture offset. So, it doesn't look so perfect and it kind of just looks like a rock. So, that's a really cool feature, especially if you have a lot of different textures that kind of have a lot of different depth to it. So, let's let's take a look at one of these. Swamp steam ground. That looks like a cool one. So, let's download that. Let's apply this to our moon just to see what it looks like. See, you could see the actual depth now because

this has a bit of shininess to it. So, this is kind of like what it would be on like a lake or like a surface. So, what you could do is if I wanted to, I could grab a cylinder tool, add that to the ground, make the height pretty narrow, so it's like sort of just a 2D object, but you could go ahead and add this material swamp steam ground.

And then when you add your displacement options, it really has the depth and you could change the texture offset here. So, you could really kind of change the terrain in your videos and add a lot of depth to it as well, >> [music] >> which is really cool. So, I'm going to delete that for now and we're going to work on adding some environmental stuff to our scene here. I'm going to go to new new light and this is going to be an environment layer.

I'll make the intensity 100. Make sure cast shadows is on. Make the shadow darkness about 200 and hit okay. All right, so I have my environment light. It didn't look like it did anything, but what I could do is I could duplicate my background. Underneath, I'm going to call this and I'll just hide this. And under my environment light, I'm going to use this as a source environment. You see what it does is it takes the scene and the lighting and the tone and it kind of matches it pretty well. So, that looks pretty good. Another thing I could do is if I wanted to actually animate my 3D object, like if I wanted to add like a cool rotation to it. The one thing I got to do is I actually have to match the movement of the scene. Because although it's the background, it doesn't quite look like it's in the distance. So, what we're going to do is we're going to

click on our background. We're going to go to animation, track and Boris FX Mocha. I'm using Mocha because there's not a lot of points here in the background. So, if I did the 3D camera tracker, it might not do too well. So, I'm just going to rely on my old faithful here, Mocha. We're going to use the elliptical tool.

We're going to look at the scene here and I don't want to grab anything that is causing too much disruption in the foreground. So, I'm kind of going to grab this little spot right here. So, I'll grab the elliptical X spline tool. I'm just going to grab a little part of it right there.

And I'll turn skew off and then we'll track it from there. And hopefully, we get a nice smooth just track on that cloud there. Okay, and we did. That looks pretty good. So, we'll go ahead and save that. We'll close out of Mocha. I'm going to create a new null object and I'm going to call this track.

And I'll go back to my Mocha settings and I'll click on create track data. And then under export option, I'm going to change this to transform. And then layer export to, I'm going to click on track. And then hit apply export. And you see if I bring down, the track has all of those points, which is great. And all I need to do is parent pick whip my moon to my track layer.

Tweak the scale and the position again. And you see it kind of mimics the subtle motion of the background, which is pretty cool. So, I'm going to click on new and light and I'm going to add a spotlight and I'm going to make this kind of a a warm light. And I'll move it kind of as you can see the sun is kind of hitting these astronauts in the back.

So, I'm going to kind of come in that same direction. So, I could add a little bit more depth lighting to the moon here. And if I want to give it a little more of a colored tone, I'm going to go to ambient light. Let's say I want to steal some of this color here.

Go ahead and do that. So, I could do that or another thing I could do is if I get rid of that ambient light, if I go to my sphere mesh layer, I could actually go into my material settings and under moon color, I could steal that color. And if that's a little bit too much, I could bring it a little bit closer to white.

That looks pretty good. And my shadow color, I could make this kind of a deep red as well. So, now our moon is looking good. Now, we just got to kind of add some more of this dust and maybe a little bit more of shadows on the moon here. Okay, so jumping ahead a little bit, a few other things that we added to this is I kind of just masked out some of this smoke and I kind of put it in the foreground here to sort of blend this edge here.

And I did the same thing behind our alpha. So, the smoke kind of rose up in front of the moon and it kind of just adds a little bit more environment to it. So, we did that. We masked it out. We added a nice feather to it. We have our spotlight hitting the moon here.

Adds a lot of depth to it, which is really cool. Okay, so last thing I want to do is add a little bit of a shadow kind of on the horizon here cuz the the light is coming from here. So, we want to add like a little bit of a shadow. So, in order to do that, I'm going to duplicate my alpha layer. I'm going to call this shadow. I'll isolate it and I'll drag on drop shadow to it.

And under my settings, I'm going to click on shadow only. I'll make sure that my direction is set and I kind of want it to my direction to be going this way, towards the moon. So, obviously it's going to overlay the whole thing, which we don't want. So, I'm just going to create a tiny mask right here.

I'm going to make sure I put this underneath my background but in front of my moon. And we could feather it. We could change the softness to it. And most importantly, I could click on mask path and then click on track mask. Track forward. Just to make sure that this track stays in place and the shadow falls on the same exact spot. So, there you have it.

Thanks for watching After Effects Beta. Try it out for yourself. Here's the final result.