[Music] Hey, hello and welcome to this really fun tutorial by Flotion. Today we are going to take a look on how to combine AI video with real footage. So just follow me into After Effects. [Music] So today I'm going to show you how to not just create AI videos, but how to seamlessly combine them with your own film footage within After Effects. We'll explore three different methods starting from simple and getting more advanced with some handy tips along the way. So first we'll attach real footage to the end of an AI generated clip. Then we'll embed an AI generated scene directly

into the middle of a continuous liveaction video. And finally, we'll completely transform an existing film video while keeping its core structure and movement. Let's start by prepping our assets. For our first shot, we need two two versions of the same room, one with and one without furniture. To get the empty room, I took a single frame into Photoshop, used the lasso tool to select the furniture, and let generative fill work its magic. With a blank prompt, Photoshop's AI flawlessly removed everything, making the room look clean and ready.

Next, I headed to Adobe Firefly where I went to the video tools and choose image to video. I uploaded the empty room as the first frame and the furniture room as the last frame. My prompt simply was all the furniture falls down from the top one by one in a dynamic way. Hey, and don't forget to set your desired resolution. You can also click enhance prompt text for more detailed description to give the AI even more to work with.

Okay, now let's bring it all together in After Effects. I load the Firefly generated video into the timeline. I then use the roto brush tool to isolate myself from the jumping footage. And I'll place my rotoscope figure at the exact moment the AI animation is complete. Wait, actually, let's get crazy and overlap them just a little bit because I find that when both animations overlap, it looks even cooler and more cohesive. And hey, since I already rotoscoped a few frames, why not benefit from that, right? Okay. Tada! The first shot is done.

Moving on to our second example. What if I want to integrate something into the video, not at the beginning or the end, maybe something passing by behind me? Well, just give it a first frame. and also nice ending frame. And now let's jump back into Firefly. As you have seen, this time we're going to use Adobe Firefly to generate a clip that will insert into the middle of a continuous live action shot. For that, I'm using two poses as my first frame and last frame. One where I'm looking left and one where I'm looking right.

Now, Firefly will render all the in between frames. So, let's set this to native 1080p, the same as our video. And let's prompt something totally crazy, like some bulls are running close to the man, and he's watching them passing by. We'll insert this AI video between our film start and end clips in After Effects, and it'll all look like a single one take wonder.

Almost. Here's a crucial note for you, Adobe. The aspect ratio isn't a perfect match, and I have to manually stretch it to fit, which really slows down the workflow. And also, the colors aren't accurate and need manual correction. Please, please fix this soon. Okay, before we jump to the last shot and use another truly insane AI tool, I want to hear from you. Let me know in the comments if you're already using AI for your videos. And if so, what are your favorite tools? And tell me, would you like to see more tutorials like this one? Or should I go back to more classic After Effects compositing? I'm excited to hear what you think. Okay, but what

if I have already filmed something really nice looking and I don't want to generate something completely new but just enhance it with AI like for example in this shot. For our last example, we're going to use Runway's powerful Gen 4 tool. Instead of creating something from scratch, we can manipulate an object in an existing film video or even the whole thing with the help of ALF. Alf A alf the crazy video AI witch or vizard. So what makes ALF so unique is that you can simply chat with it to make changes.

When you upload a video, it automatically sets everything to those settings. So, it's all pure creative freedom. For example, I'll type uh make this a nightshot and runways alf will then generate a new version of the video based on your text prompt or um a raccoon is sitting on my or his shoulder. And wow, that works really well. So, let's try turn the man into a woman.

Crazy, crazy. It even took my piercings and placed them on the girl's face somehow. So, okay. But while Runway is a paid tool, the creative possibilities are absolutely worth every single penny. And there you have it. We've seen how easy it is to merge real life footage with AI generated content. Whether it's creating a complex VFX scene, making seamless transitions, or simply manipulate something with a jet command, these tools are changing the game. The only remaining challenge is on the technical side. And hey, Adobe, you still need to work on those aspect ratio and color issues. But beyond that, the only limit is your own imagination. I hope this tutorial inspired you to experiment with these powerful new

tools. and you have any questions or want to share what you've created, drop a comment below. And for now, I wish you a lot of fun getting addicted to AI. What was this? Oh my god.