Let's take this raw green screen shot and transform it into a cinematic VFX composite step by step. So, you could pull off a perfect chroma key in After Effects, but you could still have a terrible composite. So, let me show you how to avoid that step by step. Let's dive into it. So, I have a clip here of a guy in front of a green screen. He's acting as if he's kind of on a tractor. And as you can see, it's not AI. I got this from a stock site.

I'm going to grab the key light effect. I'm going to drag it onto my clip. I'm going to click on screen color and I'm going to start by doing the brighter green here. You see there's a brighter green which is the background and then there's like sort of a darker green which is on the stool that he's on. So, I'm going to grab that brighter green.

I'll bring the view to screen mat and I'll drop down the screen mat effect. And I'll use the clip black to kind of get rid of all the excess noise. And I'll bring the clip white down. So basically my silhouette of my subject is in all white without chatter. I go to final result. I'm not paying attention to down here because I'm going to do that in a little bit. But if I zoom in here, he's getting a little bit of chatter around his arm. So that can be adjusted if I bring the screen mat clip white a little bit down a little bit more.

Okay, so that looks pretty good. My subject looks good. And down here I just have to fix. So what I'm going to do is obviously I got to crop out this piece of grip equipment here. And I'm just going to crop out his hand a little bit. And I'm going to make a split mask here.

So, that's half of my character with a good key as you can see. Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to duplicate this layer. I'll go to my mask and then I'll invert it and I'll isolate that. And I could just get rid of this. So, I'm going to subtract this mask. So, all that's left is the back half of my subject. On the back half, I'm going to reset my key light. And again, I'm not focused on this background. is really just this spot right here. So, I'm going to go to my screen color and I'm going to grab a little bit of the darker shade in the shadows here. And then I'll go to screen mat again and just kind of focusing on this and his back half. I'm going to adjust my [music] clip black

until there is almost none of the cloth. I can have a little bit as long as it's not touching him, I can mask it out. There's a little bit of chatter with that. So, I want to kind of get it in a safe spot. I can add a little bit of softness to it if I want. And I feel like that's a good spot to start. So, I'm going to go ahead and mask out this little stuff here.

And I'll turn my isolation off. Once that's all set, I have my character here by himself on an alpha channel. Okay. So, the next part would be generating a background. I have just a screenshot of my character on a white screen and I brought that into Gemini and I just said take this person transform the scene don't change the character's angle it needs to say a side profile and I just kind of gave them some details of what I was thinking and this is the image that I came up with which kind of inspired me to go a little bit further with it. I continue to maintain this as the vehicle. So I downloaded that and then it gave me a clean background to use. I went ahead and grabbed that clean background, brought it into chat GBT just for a

alternative interpretation. And I wanted something a little more photorealistic. So if you see the before and after, this is a little bit more fake looking. This one looks a little bit more photorealistic when you look at the details. So I decided to go with that. So, the next step, I actually brought this image reference into Clling to try to see how realistic we could get this tractor moving and kind of the parallax behind it. Um, I also got a few shots of it on the green screen to use if I need it just isolated, but there was something that was missing about it and I just felt like the background was a little too flat. So, I ended up bringing it into Google Flow, which is basically Google's more fine-tuned platform to use

the V3 tool. So, I'll put that link below for you. But, this came out really well. It actually had a little bit more of a camera movement than I had hoped. So, here's a shot I ended up going with. It's pretty much a lateral kind of movement. There's a little bit of kind of arc on it, but I think just the way our subject is, I don't think it's going to make that much of a difference. So, we're going to go ahead and go with that one. I wouldn't be able to use any camera movements sort of like this just due to the fact that my subjects is kind of profile and unless I had a 3D render of him or the similar camera movement, I wouldn't be able to do it. So, I think that one is the best bet. So, let's bring all this stuff into After Effects and then we'll have some fun. Okay, so I

have my clips here in After Effects. So, what I did was I pre-rendered my subject here on the alpha channel because if you remember, he was on two different shots just composited together. So, I ended up pre-rendering that just so it's one flat layer. And I have my background layer, which I just showed you. So, I have quite a bit of work to do here. Um, not only do I have to match the lighting and everything like that, but I also have to match the movement of the tractor. So, the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to duplicate my bottom layer. And I'm going to call this frame mask and I'm going to go to animation track and Boris FX Mocha. And I'll click on the Mocha icon. And then that's going to pop right up. And I'm going to grab my XPLline tool and I'm going to carefully select

the front kind of frame of this tractor here. I'm going to turn skewing off. I'm going to do show surface and align surface just so it matches the proportions of the clip. And I'm going to go ahead and start tracking. Before we continue, if you're a beginner to After Effects, if this is overwhelming for you, then check out my new website, linesesigns.com, where I built a free motion tracker selector tool, answer a few questions about your project, get the exact tools you need, plus on the website, you can grab some free PDF workflows, and some exclusive tutorials that are not on YouTube.

Everything in one place. Check it out, lines.com. All right, back to the project. Okay, so I'm going to save that. I'm going to close out of Mocha and back in After Effects, I'm going to drop my mat drop down and I'm going to click on create a mask. And that creates a mask perfectly tracked of that front kind of foreground frame. So, if I bring my subject back in, I could start to position him where he needs to be.

It kind of emulates that he's inside of this tractor. I could do all of my color correction later. for example, a drop shadow kind of on the subject from that will sort of sell the effect a little bit more. But we'll do more of that later. But for now, if I take a look at my subject, as the vehicle's moving, his movements aren't matched up with the actual vehicle. So, we need to fix that. So, the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to get him secured to the motion of this tractor. So, the first thing I'm going to do is go to the bottom layer, double click on that, and then in the tracker panel here, I'm going to click on track motion. Then I'm going to zoom in, and I'll change my track point to probably a high contrast spot, like

right about there. And then I'm going to enable rotation and scale. And I'll choose another spot, probably one of these bolts here. And then let's analyze. Make sure it doesn't slide. That's pretty good. Okay. So, now we'll do edit target. And then we're going to apply this to our rider. Hit okay. And then hit apply. And then apply to the dimensions X and Y. Yes.

And then he's going to slide out a little bit out of where we positioned him. So to fix that, I'm just going to hit A for anchor point. And I'm just going to shift that around. We can't use the position because then those are all key framed. So for that part, we're going to use anchor point. So that looks pretty good. So now the next part we need to do is really selling it with some nice color correction and tweaking. When it comes to color correcting and matching a scene, what I like to do is I like to use the lummetry scopes. And this kind of gives me a good idea of what my scene kind of looks like on the vectors scope.

So if I grab some of these parameters here and I say, okay, so there's a lot of warmness. This is my contrast level and my RGB. And this is my vibrance, kind of the the width of this line here. I'll bring my character up. I have a lummetry color effect here. That's basically when I isolate this and you look at this vector scope that I just showed you. If I enable this, this is kind of bringing everything back up to where the background of the scene is.

Before and after, you see the difference in the contrast and just add a lot of warmness to his skin and the overall tones to match the scene. Another thing I did was I added a fast box blur because this is something that when somebody's in motion and something is super sharp, he's static, but he's actually we're making him go in motion, you're going to add a little bit of a blur and as well as a motion blur. So, I'm going to actually enable motion blur down here. So, when he's actually moving, you're getting that realistic look. Another thing I already showed you before, I can add a little bit of a drop shadow to that. I could change the opacity and the distance.

And if I want to add more shadows to my character, I could duplicate my layer. I can call this shadow. We'll isolate that for now. And I could just add the drop shadow effect to my character. Hit shadow only. And I could just use my mask to isolate where the shadows would be. And once it's applied with my character, you see it's just adding a shadow to him. So obviously down here you're going to get some shadows. You're going to get shadows here and there. So it's starting to kind of piece together. So here's a little before and after. So this is before and this is after. Another thing I could do is I could add a little bit of a light wrap cuz the sun is setting kind of right here. It should be kind of

wrapping around his face. So to do this, I'm just going to grab the light wrap effect from Boris FX. I'm going to click my background. My background layer is going to be my background layer.