If you're really into visual effects, video compositing and filmmaking, then this video is for you. A huge library of visual effects practice footage and tons of assets, and all for free. Hey everyone, welcome back to the channel. I hope you're having a fantastic day. Now, one of the really big challenges when you're trying to get into visual effects, and you want to practice your skills, or you want to add some really cool shots to your demo reel to then show off to clients or potential companies to get an actual job, is it often is actually really difficult to get good footage to practice with, like professional quality visual effects practice shots that you can use to do video compositing in, to work in After Effects or Nuke, or whatever other tool you want to use for the job. Now, you can try filming a lot of that yourself, but that, you know, requires certain amount of knowledge and gear and how to

even get all of that set up. And if you really just want to focus on the visual effects and the video compositing part, that may not be something you're too terribly interested in to begin with. Fortunately, ActionVFX have released a huge library of high-quality visual effects practice footage that you can download and use for practicing your skills or showing off in your demo reels or on YouTube, and it's absolutely free.

There's tons of different shots for different situations and different visual effects, anything from action to sci-fi, fantasy, and more. And all of the shots are filmed like they would in a real-world visual effects filmmaking situation, with green screening, tracking markers, fake lighting for the actual effects. So, the only thing really missing is the actual visual effects part, the compositing part, that the whole library is meant to help you practice. All of the actors in all of the clips have signed release forms, so there's no legal worries for you to display your work or whatever you do with those clips publicly out on the internet. And the super exciting thing is that the whole library is available as of right now. I'm going to drop you the links to the ActionVFX free practice library down below the video, so you can go and check that out and grab all of the goodies to start practicing and showing off all of your skills. On top

of that, in case you don't know, you can actually get over a thousand free assets from ActionVFX as well, including spell hits, dust waves, smoke, blasters, portals, lightning, a whole bunch of sound effects, as well as a couple of sample clips of their super high-quality action stock footage, explosions, fire, sparks, and a couple of other elements.

I'm going to drop you all of the links down below. It's all free. Just go and check it out and grab yourself whatever you want. Of course, ActionVFX also sells action stock footage, and their assets are probably the highest quality assets that you can find online for your own film projects. So, if you're into visual effects and the actual working in the industry, I've seen tons of their assets in popular TV shows and Hollywood movies appear everywhere now. It's really cool stuff that they have. Go and check out all of their products. Don't have to buy anything. Just check out the individual elements, their collections.

They've got tons and tons of really cool, high-quality action stock footage, perfectly keyed, ready to just drop into your shot and make things look epic. They've got tons of tutorials behind behind the scenes stuff, and there's constantly really cool new collections coming out. I'm going to drop you the release schedule for new stuff that they've got coming out down below the video as well, so you can go and check that out as well. And if you do decide to purchase some of the assets or sign up for the ActionVFX subscription, which value-wise actually works out much better in my opinion, you can use my custom coupon code surfacedstudio, and that will knock off 10% off the final price as well. Plus, you'll be helping me out along the way, which I always really, really appreciate. But, that's really all I wanted to share. Happy practicing. Go and grab yourself all of that stuff for free, start practicing your skill, show them off online, and hopefully it'll help you get better at the craft, and hopefully land a job if that's what you're aiming for. And

that's all there is to it. I really hope you enjoyed this video. If you liked it, please hit that like button, hit that subscribe button. It really helps out my channel, and I greatly appreciate it. Any comments, questions, or suggestions, just leave them down below the video. And with that, thank you very much for watching, and until next time, I will see you later.