In today's video, I'll be showing how Hollywood films use VFX to turn a normal-looking street like this into something completely unrecognizable. Okay, let's rewind. This is the complete finished shot that I made for this video. We've got some sci-fi buildings, animated 3D characters, moving advertising boards, and a lot more. Now, let's take a look at how I did all this.

Before we get started, if you're interested, the project files from all my videos are available on my Patreon. Today's video is sponsored by CGTrader, and all of the assets in this video came from their website. They've got a massive number of really high-quality 3D assets. So, I grabbed a load of stuff from the website, including a pack of futuristic sci-fi buildings, all three of the animated robots in this shot, as well as a kitbash kit of sci-fi parts that I scattered around in the scene to make it look more interesting. More on that as we go. One of the most important things with set extensions is dealing with what the characters interact with.

In this case, the floor that I'm walking on. If you've watched any VFX breakdowns from big films or TV shows like Game of Thrones or Star Wars, you'll notice a lot of the time the floor is built for real on the set, even if everything else is blue or green screen. This is because generally, replacing backgrounds in shots is quite straightforward. You just roto the characters back on top, and you're done. But with the floor, the characters are interacting with it, and it has contact shadows and lighting differences if people walk on it, so it becomes a lot more complicated to replace this. So, by using a practical floor as a minimum, it makes the VFX artist's jobs a lot easier down the line. So, in this case, I did exactly the same thing. I shot in a location that had a street that I liked the look of, and so I planned to preserve these tiles on the floor, and then replacing everything else with 3D models. While filming, I took an HDRI using my 360 camera, and bought this into Nuke as the first step to color balance it, which makes the rest of the VFX workflow easier. Then in Blender, I added a

camera and set up my background footage, and then used this as a reference when aligning the floor. Once I had the rough layout of the scene set up, I then brought in a digital version of the color chart, and set up my HDRI as the background for my scene, using the color chart to make sure that I had my exposure set up correctly. After this, I began importing some of the sci-fi buildings from CGTrader. The asset pack came with over a hundred, so I had loads to choose from, and I just picked some that I thought looked good, and started laying them out in the scene. I arranged them in a similar layout to the footage that I actually shot. This way, the end result won't look too different from my natural lighting in the footage. Once I was happy with the layout of the buildings, I separated the geometry of the middle part of the street, and set it up as a shadow catcher. This is pretty much the only part of the scene where we're going to see through to the original footage underneath. And by setting it to a shadow catcher, I'll get lighting interaction from the CG buildings, and even the contact shadows from the CG curbs that I've added. With

the layout blocked out, I started texturing the buildings. I used a combination of PBR materials for some of the smaller assets, and then for the larger parts of the buildings, I tried to use photo textures instead. This helps a lot as they're much more uneven and have some random grunginess to them, which makes the textures look less repeated and perfect. Some of the textures have these really nice gradients going through them that look like water damage on the concrete that's happened over time. I moved around the UV maps for the different elements to get these patches feeling like they're in a natural place. With the buildings done, it's starting to take shape, but it's all looking a bit static and uninteresting. So, next up, I added some animated CG characters. I imported the models of the robots that I downloaded from CGTrader, and brought these into Mixamo to add some animation to them. I tried to pick some things that you wouldn't necessarily associate with robots. For example, the animation of walking with the Zimmer frame. For some reason, the idea of applying this to a mechanical object was quite funny. I

also downloaded this smaller robot from CGTrader that came rigged and textured. One of the things I love about downloading high-quality assets is you don't have to spend ages making everything. So, I could get straight into doing the fun stuff with this, which was the animation. I just added some grunge maps into the textures to make it look a bit more battered to fit into the scene more, and then I used the IK rig that it came with to animate it along a curve and add a little bit of personality to the droid's movements.

For this robot, I wanted it to interact with me a little bit, so the curve it's animated along goes straight towards me, and then it swerves at the last minute, and then goes around the back of me instead. This just adds a small amount of connection between the live-action elements in the CG. With the characters animated, I wanted to go in and add some smaller details into the shot. Because the scene is quite high frequency, I wanted it to feel like the more you looked, the more you actually saw. I added some power cables trailing between the different buildings in the foreground and the background. There's a few cloth sims dotted around the scene to add a little bit of movement in the wind. For the shaders on the cloth, I made it really grungy, and then used a punished-up noise texture going into the alpha of the shader, making some holes appear in the fabric. I placed a couple of big animated LED screens around the shot as well. These are something I always think of when imagining sci-fi cities, and to be honest, they're pretty prevalent in the modern world as well. I modeled them and set up some basic materials with some grunge textures going into the roughness to break it up

a little bit, but I just left the screens as a shiny black material. This way, I can go in and add stuff on them in compositing, and it gives me the flexibility to try different options without having to re-render the CG scene. The sci-fi buildings pack was great, but there were lots of flat surfaces that didn't quite have the detail that I was looking for. So, I used a load of elements from the sci-fi kitbash kit from CGTrader to start placing things like vents and pipes around the scene to add some extra detail. I even hacked together a little market stall under the canopy, just by placing elements on top of each other that vaguely resembled a table. I also added some graffiti on a couple of the buildings. I downloaded a few PNGs of stuff that I thought looked cool, did a separate UV unwrap just for these, and applied these in the shader. There's this cool face with crosses for eyes on the left, and then in the background, very small, there's the words no future spray-painted on one of the buildings. I didn't plan for it to say that, I just found this graffiti element on Google Images, and I thought it was perfect for

this scene as it's a sci-fi scene. With everything finally in place, it was time to render the scene. The render setup for this was actually quite simple. I did a beauty pass, which was the main image output, and then the shadow catcher, and then I have a utility pass, which I included the depth, position, and cryptomattes in, which will give me some finer control during compositing.

Once the renders are done, I bring them into Nuke, and the first thing I do is reverse the neutralization process I did on the HDRI, so that the CG render colors now match the color of my footage. If you're interested, I have a whole video about this process that's much more in-depth, and it will be linked on a card in the corner now. Then I started at the very back, and worked my way forwards. I needed to remove the tall building on the right, as well as the tops of some of the trees that were poking out above the CG buildings that I've added. I did this by flipping the left-hand side of the frame over to the right. Normally, this would look a bit cloned, but because it's quite overexposed, you can't really see the detail, so it works okay. One thing I did fix is that because it's mirrored, the clouds are now moving in the wrong direction. They look like they're meeting in the middle. So, for the half of the frame that I flipped, I also reversed the footage, so the clouds were now still going left to right. After that, I painted out some details on the floor that I didn't want to see. There was a drain cover that I wanted to get rid of, and the bottom of these tree planters that were sticking out

underneath the CG. So, I just used the clone paintbrush and got rid of those very quickly. Then hopping back to the CG render, I shuffled out my shadow catcher pass, and multiplied this over the floor. As you can see, this creates shadow interaction on the left and right-hand sides of the street, as well as adding the shadow from the robot that drives along the floor. Next, I started working on embedding the CG into the shot more. I added some light wrap and bloom coming from the sky that wraps around the buildings, which blends them into the background a bit better. Then I used a few cryptomattes, and used them to pull things in the scene up and down, or change their saturation or color a bit. You can tweak this stuff in the shaders in Blender as well, but sometimes adjusting the lighting of the entire scene to fix one small detail is more complicated than just using a cryptomatte in compositing. This way of doing it in 2D feels a bit more surgical, as you can go in and just tweak very specific elements without affecting the whole shot.

I added some softness and chromatic aberration into the corners of the CG, mimicking the amount that I could see in the corners of the frame in my real footage. This makes the CG feel a bit more optical and less perfect. In this instance, I ignored lens distortion, as this lens has very little distortion, so 25 mm, but generally, adding lens distortion onto CG will also make it look more optical. For rotoing myself back on top of the CG, I tried to be clever and use Biba AI. It's got a background removal tool that's quite good for rotoscoping. However, it didn't really work well enough for this shot. I ended up using it from the waist down on my legs, but for the top half, the outline of my hair and jacket was just flickering too much, so I went down the old-school traditional route, and manually rotoscoped this. I tracked and stabilized the footage to make it a bit easier, and then just spent about an hour painstakingly drawing the masks around myself. The mats that I did for the roto were pretty accurate, but as you can see on the edges of my jacket here, there's still bits of the

background coming through. This is really common even with extremely high-quality roto. It's very difficult to perfectly separate the foreground and the background without any treatment. So, to fix this problem, I did an edge extension, which eats into the edges of your mat slightly, and smears the color pixels outwards. Then you cut this out again by the original alpha, and as you can see, those green pixels that were coming through on the edge of my jacket are now filled with the gray color of my jacket instead. Even after this, it still wasn't perfect. I used a roto paint node, and went in and hand-painted some of the frames that were still problematic. Then I turned my attention to the LED screens. As I didn't have the luxury of infinite time to make this video, I prompted ChatGPT to generate me some advertisements. I gave it some different briefs, one for a trainer commercial, one for a cryptocurrency, and a few others. And then I brought these textures into Nuke. Then I stacked them on top of each other, essentially creating a much bigger canvas, and then used a transform node, and animated some keyframes to make them scroll at various

points in the shot. I thought this small amount of movement in the background and the pops of color made the whole shot look a bit less static. Speaking of which, I also went onto ProductionCrate, and downloaded a 2D element of some birds. I put these in the background flying behind the buildings, did a small amount of color correction to make them silhouetted, defocused them a tiny bit to match the softness of the plate, and they work really nicely, adding some movement and life into the background. I also downloaded a couple of smoke plume elements from ProductionCrate, and I placed these on top of the roofs, again to add a small amount of movement and interest into the background. I always find adding 2D elements like this into CG scenes makes them much more interesting, and it also saves me having to do massive smoke simulations.

Dropping these into the shot took a couple of minutes, and it works great. And with those finishing touches, here's the final result again. I think it looks really cool. I always enjoy working on larger-scale environment shots like this, as there so many different details to get stuck into. Thanks again to CGTrader for sponsoring this video. If you enjoyed, consider liking and subscribing. Check out the project files on my Patreon, and I'll see you in the next video.