This is a clip without anything being done to it. And this is the same clip, but now it's using a depth map in real 3D lighting. I'm going to show you how to extract a depth map and how to use it to make light actually wrap around your character, all inside After Effects. First, we need a depth map. I use the Anime Script. Click the FX icon and scroll down to extract depth map. You'll see a few settings like depth model and depth map quality. [music] For depth model, I usually use the first one, but you can experiment and see which ones you like. For depth [music] map quality, I normally set this to high. To extract it, you to select your clip, then click extract depth map. It'll render the clip, then start generating the depth map. If you scroll down under advanced settings, you can see the status and how long it'll take. After a minute or two, it automatically imports the finished depth map. And that's it. Now, we're going to turn this depth map into a 3D geometry. First, [music] add a black

solid and drag it below your depth map. Then, add MIR 3 to the black solid and open the geometry tab. Change size to XYZ [music] individual, then change size X and Y to be slightly larger than your [music] comp size. Set X and Y vertices to at 100 or more. I just use 900. Now, open the fractal drop down and set amplitude layer to your depth [music] map and set frequency to either zero or one. Now, scale amplitude into the negatives. What this does is create a 3D like effect by bringing whatever image you have outwards. Now, open the texture drop down and set the texture layer to your original clip. Then, change source to effects and mask. Then, hide your original clip. Now, add blur to the black solid and scale it up just enough to soften the lines. Then, toggle switches and set the black solid to Luminance. Now for the lighting. Add a

3D light. I personally like using the point light, but you can experiment. Now, open light options and just mess with the settings like intensity and radius. Now, just move the light around in a 3D space [music] and you can see it kind of react to the depth instead of just sitting flat on top. From here, you can push it further. What I added was deep glow, tritone, optical flares, light rays, and BCC film grain.

Sometimes, you'll need a lightly color grade the original clip to get better lighting results, but that's all creative freedom from here. And that's how you make 3D lighting using depth maps [music] in After Effects. If this helped, like the video, subscribe, and comment what you would like to see next. And as always, join my Discord, link in the description.

It's raining. >> [music] >> I know it's going to