like the scar of age. [music] >> Hey guys, welcome back to my three-part manga tutorial series. In today's video, I'll be showing you guys how to composite the manga. In the last one, we did animation. And then the prior video to that, we did cutting and redrawing in Photoshop. Now, I want to firstly thank everybody for all the love on the animation video. I didn't expect it to do that well. I really appreciate you guys. Seriously. Okay, so first things first. Um you may have noticed I already have the composite done here. I'm not going to be doing it as I go today. I'm just going to be explaining things. Uh I'm sure it will still be very useful.

It's just going to be a little bit different than my last two videos where I do it as I go. The very first thing I did is I grabbed a moving clouds overlay off of Pinterest. Right? So, you can see the clouds are moving here. And then I also grabbed a trees and plains background off of Pinterest as well. If you couldn't tell in this trees and planes background, I masked out the trees from the sky, right? So, I can have the moving clouds behind that.

There's my background. Um, very simple stuff. On top of that, I have a bokeh blur, which is a plugin you can get for free on Saturn's Discord. Normally, the settings I like to do for here is 10.5 on the blur radius and then 30 for the exposure, but then I mess with the blur radius afterwards. I think seven looks the best here. Again, low quality because I'm in quarter right now. I highly suggest you put your project in quarter as well, quarter resolution, because compositing will crash your PC.

Doesn't matter how good it is. I have a great PC. If I run this in full, it will probably crash. Now, next off, I have the typical drop shadow stuff. Basically, what this does right here, you need to put drop shadow, set mat, and CC composite. It allows you to control a character layer shadow on top of your character. The settings you need to worry about here, first and foremost, CC composite. Make sure this is on multiply and make sure that RGB only is [music] turned off. Next thing you need to do is go to drop shadow and make sure that shadow only is clicked on. Now, you can mess with the opacity, the distance, the softness, and the direction. These will all just change like where your shadow is, how strong it is, how soft it is, and then you know the angle of it.

After that, I've duplicated this layer, and I'll show you what I did. Duplicate this layer. I put a deep glow on it. Something like this. And then I set the opacity to 100. Turn the deep glow down a lot. And then I'll pre-ompose this like so. And put an unmolt on top of it, which will create this glowing edge right where the light is coming from.

Now, here is what that looks like when I've messed with the settings a little bit and made it look a little bit better. Let me go ahead and turn these off and explain them as I go. This is what you should have by now. Doesn't look that great, right? Next thing, I've got a wind overlay. What this is is just like some very soft particles that make it look like it is windy.

Kind of like dust, but a little bit different than dust. You can obviously tell that the wind is blowing in a certain direction, right? So, I've got that overlay on top. Next thing is optical flares. Now, these should be intuitive. I'll explain how I did them. My lighting is obviously coming from the top left and obviously ends in the bottom right. So, I pinpoint my optical flare to the top left and I put the middle point in like the middle. Um, usually have it move throughout the scene, right? Just so it's like a little bit more alive. I added another flare that you don't really need to add. This one's just like in the middle of the screen. I thought it looked good. You don't need to do that at all. Next thing is creates god rays. Now, if I turn this on, you'll see light come from these masks. I put masks on the adjustment layer because crate god rays without masks looks awful. Pretty much what this does is it creates light rays. And this

only really looks good on linear scenes. I don't think it looks good most of the time, but on linear composited scenes, it does look good. If you create masks like this and make sure to feather them and turn down the exposure is usually at like five, which like this is just awful. You need to turn that down a lot uh to your liking. Obviously, mine's at 0.92. That's the only setting I mess with when it comes to this. Now, the next thing is an S underscore gradient.

I'll show you exactly how that works. S gradient. You put this grad only to molt. And then you change this bottom point to where you know your shadows are and this top point to where your lights are. Then you can change the brightness a little bit to your liking obviously. So, that's what I've got. See it here.

This is after I've messed with the settings a little bit. Right here I have a tronee. This is going to be a very, very slight yellowish tint. You don't need to do this, but I thought it made the scene feel more realistic. Now, this one is going to take me a while to explain. This is my CC layer. It does a lot of the heavy lifting for me, as you can tell. Lummetric color. I just have it on. I didn't mess with any of the settings, but there's a ton of settings you can mess with here um for color correction. I just don't have time to be explaining all of them today. The next one is unsharp mask. Usually I have the amount set from [music] anywhere from 5 to 10 and the radius set from anywhere from 35 to 45. This is what I settle on.

7 and 38. Now we've got film convert nitrate. This one's another tricky one to explain. It looks very daunting at first. Again, this is another plugin. So if you don't have it, it's okay. This doesn't do a lot for me. Here I can show you it without. This is it with without with doesn't do a lot for me. I usually disable the grain and then I mess with the film chroma and the film luma. And then the last thing I mess with is the film stock, which mine is set to this third option. The rest of these settings I wouldn't really worry too much about, at least right now. There's a lot you can do with that, but too much to explain.

Magic bullet looks. This is another really important one. I've got two layers. Obviously, they're both different. Two two of the things are the same on them, but I'll show you kind of like the basic things I put on Magic Bullet Looks. Um, this is also very uh what's it called? RAM and CPU intensive.

Um, so if you put magic bullet looks on and it crashes your project file, just let me know that I warned you. Contrast. I have this on, but I didn't exactly use it at all. Um, you know what contrast does. I don't want to make this any different than how it is right now. I think it looks good as it is, so I'm not going to mess with this, but it's always nice to have there. Mojo. Now, this one is an important one to explain. It pretty much creates like a bluish tint.

Uh, it's kind of like a um flat CC layer on top of your project. It does a lot, honestly. Um, and it's really good to have. Optical diffusion. This creates glows where the white areas are. That's pretty much the best way I can explain it. Um, I have this set to pretty low for the strength and the density at 25.

Edge softness, pretty self-explanatory. Edge softness makes the edges softer. You can mess with the radius, the strength, all that stuff. And then a vignet. Now, that one shouldn't need an introduction. You know what vignet is? Um, obviously it makes the corners of the screen darker. So, yeah. Next layer, spot fill. Again, nice to have, but I don't have anything done with this. I just have it put on. It will create kind of brights where the the whites are.

Lit. I have this set to fall is here and a strength of 66%. It is like another solid CC layer on top of whatever else you've got going. You can kind of see here just changes the colors of the scene. Colorista, I messed with a couple settings here, but this is too much to explain. Pretty much what Colorista does is it allows you to manipulate the shadows, um the mid tones, the highlights, hue and saturation, all that stuff and whatever color you want to pop out more. So, say for example, I wanted yellows to pop out more, I would drag this up here. And you can see that it's doing that right now. That's pretty much a very, very, very bland explanation on how to use that. Curves shouldn't need an introduction, but if you don't know what curves do, it uh pretty much regulates your light levels and your shadows. I highly recommend using this.

It is very important. Another Mojo layer. Again, you know what Mojo does. We're going to skip over that. And another optical diffusion layer. You can see my settings here for both really quickly. And that is it for the base CC. Now, after that, I've gone ahead and obviously done like a quick zoom out.

Here's my graph for that. This is what that would look like with the zoom out. I wanted it to kind of have like a hotspots reveal. Um, I've just got a 3D camera for that. All of these layers are 3D with motion blur, obviously. Now, on the outside of the comp, we've got our panning. What panning is is basically like a constant movement throughout your scene. You can see here that what panning does for me, I really like the way it looks with this composite, so I'm going to keep it. Uni- heatwave. This is also really important. It makes the scene feel a lot more alive. What Uni Heatwave does is pretty much create a heat wave, you know, like what you would see in real life. It's super useful for compositing, especially when you've got fire involved. Very useful. Next, we've got the hotspots revealed. Obviously, this is just like kind of an opacity reveal. Here, I have it set to one and

then going to zero right here where the key frame ends. And that's it. The flicker I didn't keep. So, that's pretty much it. We'll go over these panning settings really quickly. You can see I just have S shake here with an amplitude of 0.1 and a frequency of 1.1. Those are the only settings I changed. So very simple motion tile on top. You don't need the motion tile, but I put it there just for safekeeping. That's going to be it for the compositing tutorial. I'm sorry I kind of speed ran through that.

I've got a lot of stuff to do today and I really want to get this video out. So yeah, that's going to be it. Again, I really want to say big thanks to everybody who showed me so much support on my last couple tutorials. I really appreciate you guys. If you learned anything, if you feel like these were helpful in the slightest bit, please leave a comment, please subscribe, please like the video. It really helps me out a ton, uh, more than you could ever imagine. And that's going to be it for me today, guys. Um, I'll catch you in the next tutorial. Peace out.