Have you ever looked at another compositor's work and thought to yourself, "How in the world are they so good at getting all of their assets and all of their resources to blend so well?" Well, I'll tell you how. It's using color spaces. Hey everyone, it's Sam from ActionVFX. In this video, we're going to demystify color spaces and explain exactly why they're critical for professional-looking composite work. I'm here to help you understand them and learn how to leverage them to improve your visual effects compositing. Think of color spaces like how paint companies sell different shades of colors, but call them the same thing. One company's red is going to be very different than another company's red. But if you try to put them on the same wall, there is a huge difference. And it will not look good. Trust me. So let's bring this back to film. Cameras, monitors, and

even softwares all see colors differently. So if you're working on a project that was shot with multiple cameras, or you're using assets in your composite that have a different color space than your source, you're going to have to put in a lot of time and effort to make them match. If only there was a system that could take an input from any source and translate it all into one singular color space that was standardized. Well, you're in luck because there is. Allow me to introduce you to ACES. ACES is the Academy Color Encoding System, and it was developed specifically for this problem. ACES provides a wide gamut, even wider than the colors that even our eyes can see. It acts as a common ground for

all of your footage and can even help simplify the compositing process. ACES provides input and output transforms as translation tools. The input transform takes your color from its original color space and translates that into ACES. The output transform then takes that ACES data and translates it into your final deliverable color space. Using ACES sounds really complex, but it's actually very simple. Every major visual effects compositing software has ACES translation built in, and the best parts are you can composite while previewing your final deliverable color space and then deliver it back in the original color space of the footage. With ACES, you can add Rec.709 or DRAGONcolor2 assets into your S-Log scene and export that back out as S-Log. How freaking cool is that? Knowing what you're

working with will help you get the best results out of each element. At ActionVFX, we offer a lot of different color spaces from Rec.709 to Linear to ACEScg to DRAGONcolor2 to REDWideGamut. We have a whole slew of them. We offer them specifically in different color spaces depending on how they were shot and to retain the most data. Because knowing the color space is crucial, that's why we offer that information on each product page so that you can know exactly what color space you need to transform into ACES. Always, always, always check this information before starting your composite. If you don't, I will find you and come to your house and change the input transform myself. So let me show you real quick what this process looks like within Adobe After Effects. I'm sorry, I would show

you in Nuke as well, but if you're using Nuke, you're a massive nerd and you already know all this stuff, this video is not for you. Here we are inside of our beloved After Effects. Let's go ahead and get our project ready to begin working within ACES. The first step is to get your project out of being Adobe Color Managed. So what we're going to do is go up to File and down to Project Settings.

From here, we're going to go over to the Color tab and now we're going to click on the drop down beside Color Engine. We're going to change this from Adobe Color Managed to OCIO Color Managed. A little warning dialog will pop up. We'll just hit OK and then let's hit OK and we can start compositing. So I'm dragging in an asset that was filmed in REDWideGamutRGB REDLog3G10. We're going to need to specify what the color space of this footage is so that ACES can transcode it appropriately. To do this, we're going to right click on our footage in the project window. We're going to go down to Interpret Footage, Main, and now we're going to go over to the Color tab.

You're going to get real sick and tired of me saying Color tab, but it's okay. Under the Override Media Color Space, we're going to click on the drop down and we're going to scroll down until we find Input/RED/Input - RED - REDLog3G10 - REDWideGamutRGB. And now as you can see, our footage looks so much better. This is because we're previewing our ACES transform in a Rec.709 workspace. If you're not working on a monitor that's Rec.709, you can click on this drop down and select the option you need for your monitor. For me, I'm working on a Rec.709 monitor, so this is perfect. So now let's go grab anasset from our Essentials Catalog. We're going to choose Ground Fire Vol. 1 and this asset is in the DRAGONcolor2 REDgamma4 color space. Unfortunately, After Effects actually doesn't have a DRAGONcolor2 REDgamma4 input transform built in.

Because of this, we made a separate video that shows you guys how to get started with these assets and how to set them up so you have the most data to work with when compositing them into your scene. And you can check that video out right here. So now that we have the asset in our project, let's go ahead and drag it over into our composition. And as you can see, it looks pretty bad. It looks nothing like a fire that you would see at daytime. There's no reds, it's too bright, and just looks awful. But if we follow the steps from that other video, you'll see that you get much more data to work with here. So as a quick rundown, let's go over to our project window, right click on our asset, go down to Interpret Footage, Main, and over in the Color tab, we're going to go down to Override Media Color Space.

We're going to click on the drop down and scroll down until we find Input/RED/ Input - RED - Linear - DRAGONcolor2 This next step won't help you out any if you haven't watched that video and downloaded the resources, so you need to do that. So we're going to add Lumetri, and under Basic Corrections, we're going to select RG4_2_LIN_64 as our Input LUT. And if you haven't watched this video, you don't have the LUT. Go get the LUT.

It's free. Go do it. Go. And now that you've downloaded the LUT and followed those steps, our asset looks incredible. It's so much closer to where it needs to be. And the benefit is within this color space, we have a huge amount of data. We can add an exposure adjustment and bring the exposure of this fire to exactly what it needs to be to match the lighting in our scene. For this, we're actually going to need to drop the exposure a bit because a ground fire is not going to overpower the sun in terms of brightness. So we're going to drag this down to a level that looks pretty dang realistic. So now we're going to grab a different asset that's in Rec.709 to show you guys how well all of these different color spaces can blend together into one cohesive image. I'm going to go ahead and drag in this Dirt Blasts Vol. 2 asset. And as you can see, it also looks pretty bad. But we're going to fix that. So let's do what we did earlier and go back and find our asset in the project window, right click on

it, go down to Interpret Footage, Main, Color tab. Now off to the right of the Override Media Color Space drop down, there's a checkbox that says Show All. We're going to go ahead and select Show All so we can see more options. After we've selected Show All, let's click on the drop down for Override Media Color Space. We're going to scroll down all the way to the very bottom and select ACES/Rec.709. There are a couple different Rec.709 options, so you may have to play around and find the right one that works best with the asset and gives you the most dynamic range. But for this asset, ACES/Rec.709 works the best. And as you can see, our asset blends in so much better. But let's say you're working on a project that has a lot of assets that are all within the same color space. And you don't want to do this over and over again. Well,

there's an easy way to actually sort of copy and paste these effects we're doing. So let's go ahead and drag in a couple Rec.709 assets into our project window. And since they're in Rec.709, let's go back to our Dirt Blasts Vol. 2 asset in our project window, we're going to right click on it, go down to Interpret Footage.

And we're going to instead hit Remember Interpretation. What this does is it essentially copies all of the Interpret Footage changes that we made previously, so that we can apply them to other assets. So now let's select all of the assets that we want to apply this interpretation to, right click on them, go down to Interpret Footage, and select Apply Interpretation. Now all of these assets are in the correct color space. As long as they stay within this project, you'll never have to do these steps to those again to get them to match your scene, you can simply drag the asset in from the project window. And it will always come through as the perfect Rec.709 interpretation. So now for the really cool part, we can actually render this composition back out in the original color space of our footage, depending on the size of the production, this will help you or your colorist when it comes to the

color correction or color grading process. The colorist can take the same grade from other clips within this scene and apply that grade to this scene so that it all looks seamless and perfect. So let me go ahead and show you guys how to do that right now. So let's go up to File, Export, Add to Render Queue. Within the Render Queue, you're going to click on the blue text beside Output Module. Since we want to retain the most data in the smallest size for this, we're going to change our format to ProRes 4444. To do this, we'll select QuickTime, and then we'll go over to our Format Options. And under the Video Codec, we're going to select Apple ProRes 4444.

Next we're going to go over to the Color tab. Next to the Output Color Space drop down, we're going to select Show All. And then we're going to click on the drop down, scroll down to Input/RED/Input - RED - REDLog3G10 - REDWideGamutRGB From here, we'll select where we want our file to be saved to. And then we'll click Render.

Once that finishes, you can see that the footage is actually in REDWideGamutRGB REDLog3G10. And we didn't have to work with a ton of LUTs and adjustment layers to get our input and our output transforms done properly. It was all so simple. I hope you found this video useful and that it helps you in your compositing workflows to streamline everything and get better compositing results. If you enjoyed this type of content, go ahead and subscribe to us and hit that like leave a comment down below and tell us your worst horror story trying to make an asset match your scene.

We've all been there and we'd love to hear it. And if you're not an ActionVFX user, go ahead and check out our website actionvfx.com. We have over 11,000 premium VFX assets and we're adding more all the time. If you want to know where you can find high quality plates like this one to practice your VFX skills on, check out our free Practice Footage Library. We have a ton of high quality scenes that were shot on cinema cameras to help you guys in your compositing skills. Whether you're trying to get better at green screen keying or 3D tracking or wire removal or just general compositing, we have a ton of resources for you. So go ahead and check it out.

That's it for today. Thank you guys so much for watching and go make something really cool.