I've seen some comments asking for like a remap tutorial, like a tutorial in general. So, uh I'm going be doing a remap tutorial just kind of basic and I'm also going to be doing like a compositing tutorial like how I composite uh my clips. So, this is what we're starting with just like a basic Oh, I forgot that. But, it's just like a basic clip. So, um, we're going to start by remapping it. So, the first thing you want to do, you probably heard this a lot, is to cut your dead frames. So, basically what a dead frame is is where there's no movement. Um, like for example here, like I'm going a frame, but there's no movement, so I'm not going to cut there. Um, so you just want to go frame by frame, which you can do by holding down control and click on the

arrow keys. You just want to click like to the right. So, I see movement. So, I'm going to cut and like I see movement again. Like there's a lot of movement in this clip. So, I'm just going to keep cutting. Uh, and I'm just going to do that over like like here. I wouldn't personally I wouldn't cut because like the subject is like his hand. So, I don't really cut when his his hand actually moves.

Okay. Now that everything's um all the dead frames are cut, I'm going to start from the bottom. You have to make sure you start from the bottom. And then I'm going to hold down shift and click on the top. And then I'm going to drag all these back so they're all one frame. Then I'm going to right click, go to key frame assistant, and then click [music] sequence layers. Make sure you have overlap off. And then click okay. And then going to pre-MP it. So now you have something that looks like this. [music] So like there's a lot more like there's no frame where he's not moving. Um and now that you have it pre-mped, we're going to add Twixer to it. And I I just use like the same settings everyone use.

Just set this to the FPS that you're using. Set this to contrast edge enhance. Set this to frame number. Set this to motion weighted blend. And then click you want to have a key frame at zero at the start. And then you want to go into here. Um, and I have 13. So, how however many clips you have in here, just minus that by one and put that at the start. [music] So, 13. I I'd go 12 here.

And then I I mean, I just rep pre-MP it. I don't It's just what I do. I don't know if it actually does anything. And then you kind you just drag this to wherever your mate is. I'll say it's like there. And then [music] like for my graph, I sometimes use this, but like recently I've been using this and I kind of just like changed it a bit. Don't use like the exact [music] same. Like you're probably going to have to change it a bit. So [music] that's what it looks like now.

So yeah, that's the that's the remap tutorial. And now we're going to do the compositing. So, I would say with your remap clip, just pre-mp it again just because like [music] sometimes if you don't do it and then you try to put all your layers, I don't know what happens. It might just be my After Effects, but like it just like it just messes up everything. [music] So, now we're going to go in here and the first thing I'm going to do is uh fog lights. Oh, shoot.

You want to put on an adjustment layer, which you do Ctrl Alt Y, and it makes adjustment layer. And then I'm going put fog lights. I usually set the opacity probably like 80. I would say like 75 for this probably. And then I'm going [music] to go overlay here and then screen here. So that's going to get like it's like fog effect. So uh the next thing I'm going put on a different one.

I'm go mood lighting the amorphice [music] morphus, however you say it. And I'm going to set also this to like 75. Um this is going to give you those like kind of like dark patches. If you want it to be like like more contrast, turn the opacity up and it'll get like darker. I really I like to keep it at like like 75 for both. So like looks like this now. So for this clip, I'm just going to put like some hot spots like probably like like that. Uh I'm going to put it on like 17, which is like a little bit darker, but once we [music] add the lighting, uh it's going to look better.

And then I'm gonna put scan lines, which looks a little stupid now, but like once you know how to use it, it can actually be pretty useful. So [music] I'm going to set like the frequency like really low. So you get like only like a couple of lines, probably like this. And then I'm going to angle it. Well, this makes more sense cuz I did the lighting first, I think. But I'm going to angle it towards where the lighting is. And then I'm going to turn down the sharpness of it probably to like here.

You can like shift it to if you want like only like a couple in there. I might actually turn it down just even more. Like I said like I think like 0.5 or something is probably a good place to put it. Um and then like the final touch I'm going to add uh my lighting. [music] I do I have optical flares but this is called uni.nole. It's just uh easier. Um so I mean I [music] just copied it from like the example but I'll just show you guys. So, I set it's it's set to like action and sci-fi, which looks kind of garbage. [music] So, I just set it to natural light. And then I'll either use 85 or 35. I don't really touch any of these. You could probably do some cool stuff with them, but these are just the easiest to use, 35 and 85. [music] Um, you definitely don't want to turn this up too much. I have it I had it on like 137. I think it starts at 100. So,

you definitely want to turn it up a little bit. And this is the scale starts at one. Um, if you turn it up, you you'll like you'll see this in the bottom, like these parts towards like the bottom, like especially this flare [music] right here. It'll get bigger. I'd say your color matters a lot. So, do it kind of depending on the scene. Like if I change the color to even like a lighter blue, like it would change the whole scene. Um, and also like if you have a color like this where you don't think it's showing as much, just like turn up the brightness and you'll see it more. But the color that I'm using shows up pretty good. So, that's the final uh product. And then usually I basically just use this this or like not this like preset I would say but like the same fog lights, the same mood lighting and then I definitely change around the hot spots and the scan lines a bit and the lighting. But like um that's like a good place to start at least. Like you can

definitely get a lot more creative with it too. But um yeah, hope this helped.