Stop spending hours rotoscoping. This video is about to save your sanity. Let me show you how I use After Effects rotor brush combined with AI to isolate my subject, rebuild the background, and create a cinematic sci-fi composite that actually looks real. Let's dive into it. You know what's wild? Every time I test out a new AI platform, there's always one that sneaks ahead of the rest. And right now, that's Paulo AI. They just dropped access to Sora 2 and Google VL 3.1, two of the best video generators out there. And right now, they're 50% off in credits. Check out some of these examples where I ran the same prompt through each. Both giving you that full cinematic output, perfect for the most discerning creators like you. And if you

want to go beyond that, Apollo AI has a built-in AI avatar. Upload your own voice and make yourself look pretty cool. AI shorts generator, even an AI video editor that can manipulate your video in some crazy ways. So, you could literally go from idea to finished product without ever leaving the platform. I'll drop my Apollo link below and you could test Sor2 or VO3.1 while that 50% discount is live. And to make it even better, Apollo AI is giving my audience a 20% off code plus a chance to win one month pro account for free. Just sign up through the link below and you'll be automatically entered into the lucky draw. Good luck and I can't wait to see what you come up with. All right, so I have a shot in After Effects of a guy in front of a fire with a nice landscape in the background and I'm going to rotoscope him out and I'm going to use AI to replace my background. So,

first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to make sure I'm on the first frame here and I'm going to double click on my clip and this is going to bring up my layer panel. And up here on my toolbar, I'm going to make sure I select the rotor brush tool or I can hit option W. A nice circular green cursor will pop up. And I can make the brush size larger by hitting the command and move my cursor over left or right to make it larger or smaller. So I'm going to make it a little bit larger. And what I've noticed works with rotoscoping is on the first frame, just kind of grab as much of your subject, a nice blob in the middle of your subject as possible, just so the algorithm and the rot brush knows kind of what you're working with.

So, I'm going to do that. And then I'm going to fine-tune it. So, I'll make my brush a little smaller. I'm going to grab his legs, but his legs aren't that important because those aren't going to be rotoscoped. But, I'm just going to grab him anyway, just to have a clean roto. Not paying that much attention to his bottom half. If you want to remove a part, you could just hold the option key and then the cursor will turn from green to red. So, I'm going to remove that.

That looks pretty good. Come up and I'm going to add his hand in here. Can't forget that. And his drink. That looks good. I'm going to remove this part. Okay. You see there's still some stray hairs and his beard and his head, but I'm going to tackle those in a little bit. So, for now, I'm just going to use this and I'm going to hit the space bar and I'm going to let this render out.

Okay. So, for a first pass, that's a pretty good job for the rotoscope. If I want to see what it really looks like, I could look at this silhouette here down here. If I could toggle the alpha overlays, I could change it to just the regular one I was just looking at. Or I could change the overlay here. And this you could adjust kind of the percentage of the opacity or the color. So, that looks pretty good. I'm going to go back to my first frame and I'll go back to my this toggle alpha option five. and I'm going to zoom in and I'm going to focus more on the edges. So to do that, I'm going to go up to my rotor brush tool.

I'm going to hold it and go to the refine edge tool where I can hit option W. And you see the brush turns from green to blue. So what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to draw over the edges. And you see the blue mark that's appearing. I'm going to draw over the edges of his beard, his hair, and even his jacket because there might be some fibers there that I want to grab. So, I'm just going to go ahead and grab the whole edge here. It's a little bigger than it probably should be, but I think it's going to be okay. I'm not going to focus too much on his legs, as I mentioned, because that part is not necessary. So, I'm just going to start from kind of his top of his legs up.

All right. So once I have all of his edges selected, I can go back to my toggle alpha. You see what it did here? It kind of selected. Now part of his beard is selected here. It's in the pink outline. And his hair that was missing before now is outlined. And I can go ahead and I can adjust this radius if I want. If I make it really high, you'll see what it does.

You see it kind of starts to select all of his shirt and his head. So, we don't want that. So, we're going to keep this pretty low. Maybe around five. If I want to adjust my refined edge mat, I could use this. So, I'm just going to use some slight adjustments here. Maybe something like that.

Because I still want to make sure that all this is selected, but I can adjust it if need be. You see, we're starting to lose this bottle a little bit, but since this is actually a refine edge tool, this is going to pick up stuff that's transparent. So, you see it actually did its job here, which was pretty cool. All right. So, from here I can go back to my silhouette. And you see it picks up the transparency of this bottle.

Picks up all the little rough edges around his top half here. Even his scruffy beard, which is semi-transparent along with his hair, which is pretty good. It does a pretty good job. So, if I go back to my composition, you see my roto is there. I'm going to jump back to my layer panel. And what I can do is you could freeze it. So, if you hit the freeze button, this is going to freeze your roto. And what this does is basically this locks in your rotoscope temporarily. You could always go back and unfreeze it by hitting the same button, but this locks in your roto temporarily. So, when you're using your composition and you're compositing and doing other stuff and moving around in the timeline, it doesn't have to propagate every time you preview something or even just move around in the timeline. So, this is something that's really helpful if you're locking

in your roto temporarily and if you want to jump back to it later, unfreeze it and make any final adjustments, you can. So, I'm going to stop that because I actually like to do a different way. So, I'm going to go back to my composition and I have my roto layer here. I'm going to duplicate my layer and my bottom layer. I'm just going to remove my rotor brush and I'm just going to label my layers here. This is going to be my All right. So, I labeled these. You see I have my main background here and I have my roto layer here. So, with my roto layer isolated here, I can go to composition pre-render.

And under output mode, I could change this to lossless with alpha. And this is going to render out my rotoscope just as a main layer with alpha channel which I can actually import back into my comp and my After Effects will run a lot faster than if I kept a roto layer in there. You see I have the rendered out version I'm going to bring into my comp here. So if you look at the difference between render times, this one says 1 millisecond, the one that I rendered out pre-rendered and this one says 1.35 seconds. So, that's a big difference.

You know, if you're working on one project uh composition, it's going to take up a lot of time. So, that's kind of why I like doing that. So, I'm going to go ahead and hide that layer and just use that as a backup. What I could do is I could hit this little guy here. And this is going to hide it. And I could hit it up here. So, it's actually going to be gone unless I actually physically bring it back by hitting this guy. And then it comes back. So, I'll hit that guy. We'll hide that away. and we'll use this one moving forward. So, what I'm going to do now is I'm going to isolate my background layer and I'm going to go ahead and go back to my first frame and I'm going to go to composition, save frame as file and I'm going to export this as a Photoshop PSD and we're going to work on our background.

I'm going to clean up this image a little bit just to have a clean reference. So, I have some areas selected that I want to remove. So, I'll just hit delete, and I'll click on generate, and that's going to generate hopefully clean versions of these items, and these will remove them. And that looks pretty good. So, I'm going to export this as a JPEG and I'm going to jump over to good old Google Gemini Nano Banana. So, if you haven't used Nano Banana, you can go over to create images and I'm going to type in my prompt.

Here's my prompt. I'm going to say change this shot to a cinematic shot of a fantasy landscape. Blah blah blah blah blah. This is just a nice prompt that I got from ChatgBT. And I'm going to click on upload file and I'm going to upload that clean plate that I just generated. And we'll see what it comes up with. All right. After a few generations, this is what I ended up going with. So, I'm going to save this as. I ended up using the nano banana image as an image and style reference for midjourney because midjourney allowed me to upscale and kind of get a higher quality overall image, which is what I needed for this video. So, I'm going to take this and I'm going to go over back to my original comp and I'm going to select kind of the bottom half of my layer here. And I'm

just going to copy that. And I'm going to paste that down here kind of where I want my subject to be. He's kind of going to be standing right around here. So now what I'm going to do is I'm going to go to layer. I'm going to merge visible. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to select all the parts where the image meets the two images basically meet.

And I'm having Photoshop basically composite this image for me. All right. So, this image looks really good. It's a good composite of both my original image and all composite. So, what I'm going to do now is I'm going to go to layer merge visible. And I'm actually going to remove this bonfire just so it doesn't get confused or messed up with the original one, which is a video version of it. All right, perfect. So now we're going to export this as a JPEG. This is super high quality, which is really, really good what we want. And back in After Effects, I'm going to go and grab that composite.

I'm going to bring that in between my two layers. Since it's so large, I'm going to scale it down. I'm going to right click and go to transform, fit to comp width. And that looks pretty good to begin with. I'm going to duplicate my background to see my reference layer here. And I'm going to go ahead and just create a rough mask around my subject's feet. Right about there. I could adjust the feather.

And we'll call this foreground. So, one thing you notice that the fire is kind of getting cut off. So, we'll go ahead and we'll duplicate our background again. And I'm just going to select this part here, the bonfire. And I'm going to use the extract effect. Bring that onto the bonfire. If I isolate that, I can bring my black point down quite a bit.

I could add softness to it. So, it kind of keeps the fire in the frame, which is good. I could feather that out. So the next thing that I have to do is I have to actually motion track. So what we'll do is we'll take our background layer, isolate that, right click, and go to track and stabilize track camera.

When that's done motion tracking, you see all the points that I have here. Since I'm trying to track the motion of the entire scene, basically I'm going to take kind of right in the middle. So, we're going to go ahead and grab that. And we're going to do create solid in camera. And we'll take a look at that solid.

If I adjust the parameters a bit. So, that looks pretty good. So, we'll use that one. I'll deselect my background. So, I'm going to go ahead and grab my background. I'm going to make that a 3D layer. And I'm going to parent that to the track solid. It changes parameters quite a bit. So I'm going to go ahead and tweak that back to the way it was.

So once the parameters are put back to normal, you see the motion is really, really good. All right. All right. So, now that we have our motion all set, I added a couple little effects that really sell the composite. You see, I have a light wrap here that kind of wraps around my subject and it takes the background layer into consideration. So, you see the wrap that it's actually doing. It's taking the actual background layer and it's wrapping around my subject. Super useful tool. This is from Boris FX Continuum. And so I have an edge lighting effect here that I have the highlight color as my kind of background light. And I could change the highlight intensity.

I can make it a little more subtle. I could change the elevation and direction. And all these pieces together give us a really nice composite. Thanks for watching. Here's the final result.