Hey everyone, I hope you enjoyed that. Now, that was the latest project that I've been working on for the last round about 2 and 1/2 months. I usually get to spend about an hour or two at night after the little one's gone to sleep. So, all up, I guess I spent round about 100 to maybe 150 hours to put all of that together. Now, I've always been a big fan of that dark, gritty look in the creepy style like Silent Hill or Stranger Things. And I've always wanted to put together my own horror transition. So, this was a lot of fun to work on, but it was also pretty challenging because it was quite a lot more complex than the usual visual effects stuff that I tend to put together. Now, the video also features my latest laptop, which is the Razer Blade 18 that Razer very kindly gifted to me. Thank you very much for that. And the entire project, start to finish, was completed on that device. Now, I actually had to figure out and learn a lot of new things as part of completing this project all the way from creating

those creepy horror tentacles. My first attempts looked absolutely horrendous, and then I had to figure out how to organically grow them over the 3D geometry. I had to remodel my office in 3D space. I had to do camera tracking to match it all up with the real shots. And then I had to deal with transferring data from After Effects to Blender to Unreal Engine and back. Now, in Unreal Engine, I actually created that handheld camera animation for the outro using something called Live Link, which actually allows you to use your mobile phone as a virtual production camera.

So, you can actually look through your phone into the 3D world, move around as if you're moving around the camera. It's recorded directly into Unreal Engine. But, it's really nice way to kind of really film your 3D environment. And then I had to export it all from Unreal Engine as well from Cycles and Blender, bring it into After Effects, composite it all together, export from there into Premiere Pro, and then do final edit and sound design in there. But, other than that, I hope you enjoyed it. Please hit that like button, share the video around, subscribe if you're not already and you enjoyed the video. And with that, thank you very much for watching, and until next time, I will see you later.