transform your scene using After Effects and some AI tools. If you're still doing your VFX compositing only in After Effects, then you're missing out. I'm going to show you how to create composits like this using Nano Banana Pro and Clling's newest 01 model. Let's dive into it. You ever lose hours of work from one bad click? Yeah, happens to everyone. Try using Wondershare Recover V14, an AI powered Mac recovery tool for creators.

AI powered device recognition and faster scanning allows you to find your files in just a few clicks. With Mac OS 26 and Apple's exclusive codec recovery, it brings back Final Cut Pro projects, Photoshop, or Logic Pro fully intact. It also includes AI enhanced repair for damaged files. Recover is your creative lifesaver for deadlines and passion projects. No stress, no data loss. Visit the link below and try Recover It V14 today. All right, I have a clip here of my subject walking down a field. And my goal is to replace this background that's in front of him and maybe add some more elements along the way. So, first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to click on my clip and I'm going to go up here and I'm going to select the rotor brush tool and you see the little green circle. If I

hold the command key and I move my cursor, it'll make the size change of my brush. So, I'm going to go ahead and select my subject as best I can in this first frame here. It did a pretty okay job. I'm going to make my brush size smaller and I'm going to remove parts of this. So, I'll go ahead and make some more fine-tune adjustments. I'm not too worried about the the legs here because again, I'm only kind of replacing the background that's in front of him. So, it's really just kind of his torso and his head that I'm worried about. But nonetheless, I'm going to actually try to get a clean roto here.

Okay, so that looks pretty good. And you see his hairs kind of don't get included here. So to fix that, I'm going to go over to my refine edge tool. Or I could just hit option W to switch between the two. You see the color changes of my cursor and make this a little bit bigger. And I'm going to use my refine edge tool to kind of go over his hairs here. If I switch over to the alpha overlay tool, you see it selects all these hairs here. And you could do this with other spots, too. Like here, you see there's a little bit of a gap between his torso and his arm. So, I'm actually just going to go over this with the refined edge tool. And this is just going to soften the edges so it just doesn't look so harsh. That looks pretty good. And I could do the same thing with just kind of the edge of his torso to

kind of blend it a little bit better. I like the refine edge tool because it gives you a little bit more flexibility with the edge. If you want to soften it, if you want to change it, if you want to add smoothness to it, it allows you to. So, that's why I like using it pretty much on every roto that I do. Okay, so I'm going back to my alpha overlay. That looks really good. And if you wanted to, you could actually adjust it. So, if I go over to my base refine edge radius and let's say I wanted to increase it.

You see how the pink just kind of takes over. That's because I increased it quite a bit. So, I'm just going to undo that. And I could increase it a little bit just to give my edge a little bit more. And here under refine edge mat, like I mentioned, you could actually change the smoothness. You could add a little bit of feather to it and contrast. And if there's a lot of chatter, if there's a lot of like flickering in your roto, you could change this to smoother or more detailed. And again, if your subject is kind of running or moving his hands a lot, you could actually check use motion blur. So, I'm going to select that even though, you know, it's a handheld shot, so there's not a lot of motion blur because the camera's following him, but I'm going to select that anyway just to be safe. And I'll preview my roto here.

All right. So, my roto seems to have picked up pretty well. I'm happy with it. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to click the freeze button. And the freeze tool just basically freezes your roto in place so your timeline doesn't have to propagate every time you kind of jump around. So, another way you could speed up your After Effects after you rotoscope, so you can kind of do your compositing without your computer lagging. I like to actually just pre-render and I'll make sure my output module is lossless with alpha. You can output it as a alpha channel. So that'll speed it up quite a bit. Okay. So then once my alpha channel is ready to go, I'll import that back into my sequence, bring it into my composition, and [music] I'm just going to hide my roto layer.

Now, if you look at this in the render time here, you see right here for my roto layer, it's rendering at 1.6 seconds versus [music] pretty much 0 milliseconds for the alpha subject. So, that's going to save me a lot of time throughout the course of my, you know, composition. So, I'm going go ahead and use that. That looks really good. Again, I said the bottom I don't need to worry about too much. It's flickering a little bit just cuz the grass is really hard to rotoscope. The grass kind of covers some of his boots there. But overall, his top part looks really good, and I'm happy with it. So, we're going to move forward. Make sure I have my background layer here as part of my bottom. So, this is my main background layer, and this is my alpha layer on top. My roto layer, I'm, like I

said, I'm going to hide to get that completely out of the way. I'm going to click on this little guy, and then up here, I'm gonna click on the guy. And this kind of shies away anything that's hidden just so it kind of gets out of the way and you don't have to see it. If I need it, it's there, but I'm going to leave it hidden for now. All right. So, the next thing I'm going to do is I'm going to actually composite my background using some AI tools. So, I'm going to go to composition, save frame as file, and exporting that as a PSD.

Okay. So, I have my PSD opened up in Photoshop. I'm just going to remove my subject just to kind of get it out of the way so I can just focus mainly on my background. So I'm going to click select subject. I'm going to expand this about 10 pixels and I'm going to hit delete and then click on generative fill and just hit generate. All right, so that looks pretty good right there. I'm going to click on merge visible. So it's just a flattened layer. And from here, I could actually just select my background and I could click on generative fill and I could just use Firefly to change my background. But since I'm a little bit picky, I'm going to export this and bring this into Gemini to use Nano Banana Pro. I'm in Gemini. I'm using Nano Banana Pro. I'm going to add my file. So, I'm going to upload my

background. This is my clean plate. I'm going to upload that. All right. All right. So, I'm going to add my prompt here. It's pretty detailed. And we'll see what Nano Banana Pro can come up with. Okay. So, this is what the image was that Gemini and Nano Banana Pro pumped out. This is really good. I'm super excited about that. I'm going to go to Haleuo and I'm going to upload my image. And I got my prompt here. And what I want to do is even though the shot is a handheld moving shot, I basically want the shot to be static. so I could emulate the movement of this camera. So, I'm actually going to click on this little camera icon. This is why I'm using Haluo because it allows you to change the shot type. So, I'm going to

make sure this is a static shot and I'm going to create it. And here's a result of the static shot. So, I have my clip that's a static shot and I want to blend it in with my scene. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to take my mask tool, and I'm just going to do a rough mask around the top of the frame here.

And I'm just going to adjust this so it's kind of right around [music] the horizon. Something like that. We see that the color temperature needs to change. So, I'm going to go to my lummetry color. Drag that on there. And I'm going to bring this to about, let's say, -40. Let's bring the exposure up a little bit. Contrast. Okay. So, I'm going to add the lummetry color effect to this.

And I'm going to make some adjustments. And I'll double check my lummetry scope [music] to just make sure that these two frames blend in nicely. So if I kind of hide this, you can see maybe I want to go a little bit more up. So they kind of overlap on this vector scope here a little bit. And in terms of the contrast, that looks good. Okay. So now the scenes kind of blend in a little bit better.

I'm going to hit the F key and I'm going to feather my mask quite a bit. I'll make some slight adjustments to it. That looks pretty good. So, if this is my first frame, obviously, I'm not going to worry about my subject because he's going to be in the foreground there. So, overall, for a first frame, that looks really good. So, I'm going to keep that.

And the next thing I got to do is actually just track my footage. So, I'm going to isolate my bottom layer here, and I'm going to go to animation track and Boris FX Mocha. Since this is kind of a planer track, meaning the background doesn't really change that much just in terms of like size and position, I'm going to use Mocha versus the 3D camera track. So, I'm going to take my XPlind tool here and I'm just going to select a big portion of the background here, like that. I'll click on show surface and align surface to match up with the proportions of my clip, and I'll track forward.

Okay, that looks really good. I'm going to save that and close out of Mocha. And I'm going to bring all my other layers back. And I'm going to take my background and I'm actually going to pre-ompose it. Move all attributes into the new composition. So this way, this pre-MP kind of matches the proportions of my clip. Go back to my Mocha settings and I'll drop down the tracking data.

And I'll click on create track data. Then under layer export 2, I'll select my final 4K background pre-MP and I'll click apply export. And you see the background blends in almost seamlessly with my track. Pretty amazing stuff. All right, so the next thing I'm going to do is actually add some elements into my field here. And since it's a 3D tracked scene, I basically need to either import some GB and some actual 3D layers and do some more tracking and whatnot. Or I could actually use a really well-trained AI model, which luckily for me, Cling AI just came out with Cling01, which actually nails this perfectly. But before I do that, I'm going to go over to my Nano Banana Pro. You could use this with any other image model, which basically I took a screenshot of my

final comp. [music] And I basically had it composite some different elements throughout the shot. And then I took that, brought it into cling using the 01 model, and I uploaded the image that I wanted to composite. So I did video one, man walks through a field, an apocalyptic battlefield with scattered junk around the field as shown in image one. And then I generated that and this is what I came up with. So this basically would have taken me, you know, hours if not days to match the color correction, getting the compositing perfectly, you know. So this is a really good option when you're kind of almost done with your shot and you just need to polish it a little bit more. And here's the final result.