All [Music] right, let's get on to some more fun stuff. Let's do some atmosphere stuff. That sounds fun. So, we'll go ahead and start with maybe the light here. Actually, maybe even before I do that, we should add kind of the overall atmosphere to the shot, which will give us the idea of how foggy it is in there before we go ahead and add the light to the lamp. So, I'm going to go ahead and just make an adjustment layer. Well, we'll call it atmos. Yeah, sounds good.

And we're going to do this. I'm going to try doing it with a glow first. Right out of the box, there's a lot of stuff we should do to this. First thing I'm actually going to do, I'm going to bring the threshold way down. Like, I want it to impact almost the entire plate. We're going to bring the radius way up. Like way way up. So, obviously the intensity is way too much. Let's go ahead and bring that way down. It's kind of cool, but obviously too much still.

Um, as we dial this in, continue to mess a little bit with threshold and radius. So, one thing you'll notice immediately is how much brightening is happening overall. It's creatively changing your whole exposure of the plate. It's lifting a lot of the dark areas, and we don't necessarily want to mess with that. What we can do is we can kind of counteract what we've done with the glow. Maybe we add a curves and we kind of start pulling down the mids here. So, notice how now we're getting atmosphere, but we're not getting an overall increase in the brightness of the plate.

We're counteracting it with this. So, we're kind of getting all that nice haze, but we're not actually messing with the exposure overall. Probably still way too much, but it's getting there. We can easily just dial it dial it in here. But notice how the radius has to be giant for this kind of thing.

Maybe even more because you don't want to see Let me let me lower it down to like 100. If you're just trying to add a little bit of atmosphere, you don't want to visibly see the halos around the bright areas. Um, but if you go with a large enough radius, it will kind of add that overall adjustment. It definitely adds the feeling of atmosphere without necessarily damaging things. When I toggle it on and off, what I'm what my goal is, if I blur my eyes a little bit almost, I want to make sure that the overall feeling of the plate and the exposure is not being impacted. Should stay about the same. That's kind of what I'm looking for there. And this combined with a little lamp glow that we're going to add is going to go a long ways. All right. Now, we can do the lamp. Let's start with something as simple as a solid. I'm just going to go ahead and duplicate this plate that I keep as a backup down at the bottom with this gray solid. I'm just going to pre-MP this and

we'll call this lamp light work. So now I can go in there and maybe I'll just I'll turn this plate into a guide layer. I'm going to make this little pre-MP where we can work on the lamp. We can visually and quickly see how it's looking over the plate. So in order to position it, we need to get a couple things. So, let's go ahead and jump into where we know our track is, which is in the monitors. I'm going to go to top view where we can see the NLES really clearly. We know where the desk light is. I think it's this clump of NLES here. So, this I'm going to take that null. The camera I selected both. Copy.

And I'm just going to paste them in my lamp work pre-MP that I was making. So, got a null. It looks like it was on the back of the lamp there. It looks like it's going to track in just fine. I'm just going to copy that position data first. I got to turn that solid 3D.

Paste it on there. Just going to go ahead and scale up this solid a bit. I want to make sure it covers the area we're going to be doing the lamp light. I can use anchor point to go up or down to kind of position it in the right area. Maybe I'll also just rotate it so it's facing the camera a little bit more. Here, I'll start with a quick mask here. Let's start with something kind of like this. Okay, it's going to look stupid at first, but the magic's going to come in when I do the falloff on it. So, for this, we're going to use the mask feather tool. And the idea is that in the area right by the light itself, there's not going to be a whole lot of feathering. And then as you get further and further away, there is much larger fall-off. Round off this one. I feel like he's throw he's messing up our our thing here. Oops. So, we're going for kind of that really large

fall-off right by the lamp. It's going to feel like it's coming out pretty sharp. Dissipate. And we'll also want to do maybe an additional mask here that is going to control the falloff uh much larger. Give this guy a huge blur. All right, there we go. So, if I turn off this plate, that's just a guide layer. We'll see it kind of alone, but I'm going to bring back the roto for the lamp so you won't actually see that.

Okay, we're back in the main work. I'm going to try to put him in the hierarchy where he needs to go. So, he would be in front of the astronauts. And let's go ahead and Where's our roto at? Here's our roto. The red channel is basically what I'm going to want. But there's also the coffee mug. So, couple things we could do here.

I could take the mocha roto layer. I could go right into my lamp light work. I could paste it in here. Making sure only to use the lamp pieces. Just delete the rest. We've got a nice little solid in here of the roto ready to go. I should be naming my layers. My bad. We could simply take that as an alpha mat. Invert that. So, it's kind of already being pre-matted down in this comp. And then I could go back up to the main work here. And you'll see that we've got our light. Um, that's one technique. We can kind of use that to premat it. And I can control this independently from the other rotos, which is kind of nice. I can get this dialed in because maybe I actually want to adjust this roto a little bit to make sure that this light falls off around the edge. really nice. So maybe I want to take this main one here, pull its expansion back a hair, which is going to

help it kind of go around the light. I need to adjust my mask already. I can tell. I might even just add more feather at the start coming out of the lamp there. There, that's already immensely better. We could keep finessing this a little bit more, but we're going to actually dial this in way more subtle.

Anyway, honestly, based on where the bulb probably is in here, I think the cone might be a hair large. So we can just quickly adjust that. Just kind of narrow the cone a little bit. Yeah, that's maybe a little better. Okay, now let's work on the color. We have an indicator here of what color this light is. So let's go ahead and utilize that with a fill. Notice how I'm not going to pick whip the color from right here. If I did that, it actually wouldn't grab the right color because we have an adjustment layer with our show color and everything happening all at the top. So, if I want to make sure I select the right color, I actually need to solo where that color is coming from, which is in this the original plate here. I can still turn back on my lamp. Um, but now I've got this plate. I can see the color of the yellow coming in there. I'm going to go ahead and grab it. Now, it's going to

pull the value from the actual plate, which might even have a value over one. It's really highly exposed. Like, if I mouse over that on the plate, I can see actually in the upper right of my screen in the info panel, we've got our reds and greens are up in the two and a half range. Pretty hot. So, and when you do a ey drop, it pulls all those values. It doesn't just cap it at one. So, once we did that, you'll notice that actually our light immediately got even brighter than it was. Uh, I'm going to leave that fill, but I'm actually just going to bring the opacity, start dialing it way back until it feels kind of more natural in the scene here. All right, so we've got our lamp, and it's adding a little bit of atmospheric light. It's looking pretty cool. I'm going to go ahead and just change the color of it so we can see it. I'm digging it.

One other little bit uh fun thing we can add to this is dust. So I'm going to go ahead and just go into this pre-MP. And what we're going to do for the dust is start with a solid. I feel like that's how we start with everything. We're just going to use CC particle systems. And it comes with After Effects. It can do a lot of things um when you just need something simple, especially dust. Let's get this working.

I'm just going to solo it for a second. I'm also going to take its layer and drag it back a bit. That'll give it some pre-roll. You can kind of see what you're working with a little bit easier because if you start from nothing, it's it's a little bit harder to see. All right. So, we're going to go ahead and change this to something different.

Maybe twirly. Velocity should be zero. Maybe we want like no gravity. We want the radius of the producer. We want that to be pretty giant. I can't even see what I'm doing right now. So, I'm going to go ahead and switch the particle type over to like a faded sphere. Well, let's just make them really big for now. Maybe our our radius is way too big, apparently. Apparently, these values go a long way. So, let's try that. Uh, birth color. I'm just going to make them have it go white to black uh on death.

And we can also change the opacity map to be fade in, fade out. So, they're very subtle. We want them to live on screen for I don't know, three seconds. Have even less be born. Well, let's just see what's happening first of all here. All right, they're appearing and they're not even moving. So, let's go ahead and see if we can add a little bit of something here. Maybe I need to give them a little bit of inherent velocity. All right. Also, the birth size. I'm going actually cuz I'm seeing them appear too quickly when they when they spawn. I'm actually going to have them start at zero and then they will get larger and larger over time, but they're also fading out over time. So, that will hide kind of the end there.

Size variation. Sure. Death size. Let's go smaller. I'm now I'm actually going to start to shrink them down into dust size. All right, these are looking pretty cool. Definitely moving way too fast still. Let's try 0.1 velocity. Not bad. Wow. There's a couple things I don't like. Uh like there's this one spot I'm looking at here where particles just literally appear in a line from each other. That does not look really real. I'm going go ahead and just change the random seed. Hopefully find something that I like a little bit better. They're still way too way too big. my the end size should still be pretty microscopic. It's probably really hard to see. That's why I'm cranking the exposure here, just so we can catch a glimpse of this, but until we put it in the comp, it's actually going to be pretty hard to see. They look like they're going way too fast. What I what I might do here is

once I kind of get a system looking good, like let's say this was my slow dust at 004. I'm going to duplicate the whole system, change the seed, and maybe I'll go ahead and have this new one have these particles travel faster. And I could do less particles. So, it'll only have a couple maybe, but they'll be flying through the screen at a faster rate. And you'll just only occasionally maybe get a glimpse of one of those ones. I'm going to go ahead and pre-roll these even more. I want to make sure that there the system is fully running by the time we start to see it. Okay, I'm just going to unsolo those. So, now that we're looking at our light, you know, I might actually take these layers. I'm going to go ahead and put them in the same 3D space. This would barely ever be noticed, but technically they should be in 3D space. So, we've got our dust. I'm just

taking a look at how many dust specks are kind of hitting the area of light here to see how many we'll end up seeing in the final final product because we actually don't want to see all the dust that's outside. We actually only want to see it where the light is. To do that really quick and easy, just add a mask. I might even have it go just beyond as if it's catching the light. So, I could do something like that. And very similar to the mask that's on the other layer, we could feather that a bunch. Let's put the same one on the other one. There we go. So, we've only got our dust. If I crank the exposure, you can see that the dust specks are only barely existing where our light is with a few that kind of go out beyond. It's looking pretty cool. I think I probably feathered these too much. I want to make sure I get the right fall off, too. Again, I want the dust that's nearest the light, like

right by the source. That should be the brightest. And it should really fall off pretty quickly, so you don't see the dust over there much. So, I'm going to go ahead and subtract. Okay. Put that layer on the Whoa. Put that layer on the other one as well. Don't know why this mask doesn't want to work the way I would expect it to work. I'm going to go ahead and cut these masks entirely. The danger probably happened from trying to mask the actual layer where the particle system is on. And I have a feeling that something somewhere is not happy with that. So, it's much safer if I just create a random solid first. And maybe I just make him 3D. I scale him up. I put the same masks on him. And we take the positional data, put it on there, put the anchor point and all that. I can visually see it now, which is nice. That

was kind of the area I wanted. Now I can tell these guys to trackmat that. This is going to be safer. All right, this is now working as intended. There they are. We can really dial in this. And now we Well, what's nice about this is no masks on the actual particle system. I can adjust in one place. I can get this fall-off really dialed in. All right. It's incredibly subtle. Let me turn on the background plate. If I had this in the background, probably should have had this the whole time. We could have been seeing kind of what's happening. Um, remember this is just a guide. This isn't how they're going to look in the final thing. It's being colored up a comp in the main work. But we could take a look and see how this is going. And we can see if it's got the right amount.

And what I might do is watch this once or twice. I can see if I like in general what's happening. If I'm not happy with where the particles are, I could always just go in here and adjust the seed. Um, and we can get something totally different until I'm kind of happy with where the particles are appearing and whatever. But for now, I'm going to leave it like this. I think this is going to be pretty good. I'm going to go see how it looks in the main work.

Okay. So, we've got our lamp light here. Not seeing, at least on this frame, I'm not seeing any dust. They're there. Okay. We're bringing down the exposure so far here. If we want to even catch a tiny glimpse of these guys, uh we might just need to go in here and make these uh more visible. We can either make them maybe we'll want to make them a hair larger, honestly. So, death size 00707. I also am going to be wary of how sharp they are because nothing in the plate is that sharp as that little point is little speck of dust. So, to be safe, probably going to add a very small fast blur to it.

Yeah. Um Oh, yeah. I also wanted to make sure that they're bright enough. So, right now the opacity, max opacity I could put to 100. That'll help. Let me just go to the main work. See if I can see. Okay, it's so subtle, but I see a couple. I might leave it like this for now. Better to be on the subtle side for dust than too visible. And I do know they have quite a bit of motion. So, I think the smallest, even though they're not very visible in a still frame, that motion is really going to bring them out. All right, so we've got our newscaster now. We've got our lamp light. We've got a little bit of atmosphere. There's a couple other things we can do to make this even more awesome.