[Music] All right, let's comp some more stuff. Let's add the monitors now. So, in our graphics, we've got our graphics that we already imported. Let's go ahead and turn on our moni 3D track monitors, which are just checkerboards at the moment. So, I'll go into the left one, bring in the graphics, turn off the checkerboard just in case I want to look at it again later. Let's go up one, down into the right, plop the graphics in there.

Go back up to our 3D track monitors again. Now we've got the monitor sitting in the correct spot. Go back up to the main work. We'll get the depth of field in there accurately. Looks like our focal plane is focused kind of the front edge of this one on the right and it kind of goes out of focus as you get to the far left. One thing that I'm hyper aware of is aliasing. That can happen when you have a really sharp object, especially along thin lines. You'll see some aliasing issues. To fix that, we're going to sling a little bit of blur onto it prior to the corner pin. It's a little bit of pre-blur. Make sure I hold control so it does it very subtly. And do the same thing on the screen.

Right. All right. And that kind of takes the edge off. Once I've done that, now we can add the camera blur. I'm going to apply it as an adjustment layer so that it kind of spreads across both monitors in an accurate way. We'll call this depth of field. Again, I'll just put a camera lens blur on this. This time, we're going to utilize a blur map, though. So, I'm going to go ahead and just make it to do a quick blur map. I'm going to create a solid. Just going to immediately pre-MP that. We'll call it depth map. And I'm just going to throw a gradient ramp on that. And our focal plane is somewhere here. Go check out my handiwork here. We just kind of turn this on a low

opacity to kind of see what's happening. This kind of makes it a quick and easy way. I can just do an adjustment here. The the black is where it'll be in focus. So I think somewhere around there. And we'll have it be going out of focus to the far end of the monitors. So it gives us this range which will give us a lot of control here when we're adding our custom depth. Uh that layer does not need to be turned on. We're just going to source it from this effect. So from the camera lens blur effect here right now because it's on adjustment layer, you'll see that it's affecting the entire plate. What I'm actually going to do to fix that for right now, I'm going to take this plate, put it on top of the comp on like an add blending mode and lock it real quick so I can see what's going on. Definitely a lot less here. For the blur map, I'm going to go ahead and select that depth map we just made. And immediately you

can see that the graphics on the right are in focus and they are getting further and further out of focus as it goes to the left, which is exactly what we want. Go ahead and do the same things I did to the other effect where I made roundness 100, aspect ratio slightly anamorphic, little diffraction fringe, and I'm going to keep lowering this until we match the plate precisely.

beneath the graphics. You can even see the graphics of the screen below it. So, that's it's actually a really helpful reference. It might even be just a hair more blurred. All right, I'm just going to go back up to the main work to check it out. I can actually see a tiny bit of the old graphics coming through, so I'm going to want to fix that here in a second. This one on the right, I feel like, is still too sharp. So, let's go ahead and go into here. I'm going to do a fast blur this time on the other side of the power pin. There we go. So, again, that helped with the anti-aliasing issues. Still feels kind of weirdly sharp at the top. Ah, that's the old graphic bleeding

through. One thing I'm actually going to do here, we have full control over these screens, and I think these are supposed to look more sci-fi anyway. Right now they look a little bit older. So what we should actually do is thin up the bezels on the edge. Anyway, the quickest way to do that would be to go into here and in our CCC power pin, we've got our quick and easy expansion properties. So we can just go ahead and start expanding these out a little bit. I'm going to try Let me see what happens if I expand this.

Oops. I need to make sure to turn off repeat edge pixels on this fast blur here because what that ended up doing was cropping it down to uh where the original boundary box was. Let's do something kind of like that. So, I'll do four on top. Should probably do the same on the bottom. Uh maybe a little bit on the right and a little bit on the left to match it. All right, that'll be cooler.

Already looks more modern. We'll do the same on the left. For this one, the four is looking too much on the bottom. Let's go with three. That's better. And that will immediately fix some of those edge issues we were seeing. Anyway, there we go. This line does not look straight on the bottom edge here.

I'm going to fix that. I'm going to fix that by just lifting that corner a little bit in the bottom left. So, I'm going to go bottom left, select it, make sure it gets both, hold control, and lift up. There we go. That's better. The line looks straighter down here. And if I compare the graphic against the plate that's around it, it's all sitting in there with the right amount of blur and defocus. Excellent. One thing I actually while zooming in on these monitors here, I can already tell that they're too dark. It's always kind of it's always a red flag when you see the black values going darker than the darkest shadows of your plate. Even um that's an immediate red flag that compositing is not working at the moment. So, for to fix that quickly, we

just need to do like a very subtle lift on the blacks. Going to pull them up. And if I'm zooming in on a dark area here, I make it easier to see. Um, as soon as you start adjusting that value, you'll see it start to lift. And I've I haven't gone very far at all. If you aren't used to working in linear in After Effects, the values would be so different. To do the same visual effect, you might actually take this black level and go up to like here. If you were working in in sRGB or RECX 709, if I turn on and off this levels, you can actually see that it's it's actually doing a lot. If I turn off my exposure adjustment, toggle it on and off. Now, you can see that it's actually is helping a lot. Let me go back to that 018. It's lifting it up. It actually already feels a lot more natural than it

did without it. Um, while we're here, let's go ahead and bring back some of the roto. Let's go ahead and bring the lamp back on top here. All right, let's do it as let's do it as a little patch here. So, put the roto back to 100. So, I'm going to take a copy of our plate D noiseis. Duplicate that. Let's use the red channel this time from our roto work. I'm going to go ahead and put a shift channels on it.

Change these all to red. Trackmat that um with luma instead of alpha. Oops. Turn it on. There we go. And immediately our lamp just popped right back on top. It's also pulling him which in this case we might not want. We've already done that work in the exterior work. It could negatively impact some of those edges we've already dialed in. So what I'm going to do here is create a quick garbage mat that just uses the roto we need to bring the lamp and mug back on top of the monitors.

So, it's just going to select this area. So, it's just bringing back the plate over the graphics in this area. Another way of doing this, which would work just as well, I could delete this. We could actually just have our monitors themselves, this layer can trackmat the road to work with that layer. Again, switch to luma. I'm going to have to invert it this time. And that's going to do the same function. If we solo the monitors and I turn on alpha, you can see how it's using that rotomat to cut away the pieces that it needs to cut away from the graphics. So, that works well. All right, graphics are looking good.