[Music] Now would be a great time to talk about how could we generate grain that matches the original plate that we can use to regrain paint work or these solid graphics that we have here that are currently grainless. So the very first thing you would do to do this, let's actually do it in its own little pre-MP here. I'm going to take the plate and we're just going to put put it into a comp all by itself and we're going to name this grain maker. So this will be our grain maker. I'm going to put that back to untonone map. So, the first thing we're going to do is we're going to make a solid. Control Y to make a solid. I'm going to change its color to exactly a 50% gray 0050 or 0.5 RGB. On this solid, I'm going to put a match grain. Now, this comes with After Effects. I'm just

going to set it to final output. As soon as you do that final output, nothing will happen until you select noise source layer. And we're going to select the plate as our source layer. Again, hard to see at this point still. If we wanted, we could throw an adjustment layer on here as a guide layer. When you put a levels on here, you can see all the values. Well, it's a 50% gray solid, so that's why it's got a peak right in the very, very middle. You can up the contrast of this by essentially pinching these in really tight. I want to make sure I'm going the same amount with both ends. So, I'm actually going to bring this one to a 045. And then this one will need to go to a 0.55. And I know that those are going to be equal. It's centered directly around that middle. And now you can definitely see it. I can switch between the

channels now. And you can see we have a lot of grain. You could use this. You could render this out, not including the adjustment layer of course, and use it with the linear light blending mode to put it right back on the footage. But we're not going to stop there. There's something I don't like about this one.

And if I look at the channels independently, blue channel looks pretty good. If I look at red channel, it's kind of hard, probably very hard to see, but there's like a little bit of horizontal striation happening. There's moments where you get kind of these straight lines, which never happens in real grain. I can see it a little bit in the green channel as well. And some of that stems from the fact that when you select the layer and you do this, you're leaving it up to After Effects to pick random spots on the footage to use to generate that grain. Maybe it's not picking the best spots. If you go into your sampling section, you can see that it's sampling from the very first frame, frame zero. It ignores your frame numbering in your comp. It's pulling eight samples from it. The sample size of 24 pixels. And right now, the sample selection is set to automatic. We're actually going to want to switch that to manual. Yeah. So, we're going to pick

spots. Now, there's a drop down here. When you're in manual, you can actually change the value of all the sample points. You can also change the locations for all the intensities, but I am going to link all of these together because I want the intensity of these points be in the same location as where my sample points themselves are. So, I'm going to go ahead and immediately do this. I'm going to pick whip them. This one to this one, number two, one to number three. I'm alt clicking on these to get the expression thing to come up immediately. Um, and there we go. So, those are now linked. I won't have to adjust those. And now I'm just going to pick these sample points. For the first one, I'm just going to select over here.

I'm specifically looking for areas where around that sample point is just a nice consistent grain pattern. There's no high detail contrasty areas. There's no we're not looking at some strange pattern on the chair. Uh basically, it's a nice neutral spot. You can see the sample size, too. It shows you the box of of how large it's taking. So, you want to make sure that whole area is just a nice clean grain pattern. I wouldn't mind if it was a bigger sample box, too. So, I'm going to grab that.

Uh, for number two, I'm going to do a similar thing. Number three, and I'm actually going to go around and find different luminance areas. I want to get a nice mix so I'm not just sampling from one specific area. Let's even grab one in the darkest area down here, too. All right, so we've got our new points and the points that we picked, I am confident to say they're better than whatever the automatic ones would be. So now that we've done that, let's go ahead and switch back to final output. I'm going to turn on that adjustment just so I can see what I'm looking at here. And it is egregious. It is horrible. So why did this happen? Let's go back and see what's

going on here. Let me try putting this back to 24 sample size and see what happens. As soon as I did that, it is great. It's way better. Red, green, blue. It's great. That was like the first time I've changed the sample size. And now I am wondering what is up with sample size. Say go to 48.

Yeah, look at that. The higher I go with sample size, the worst it gets. 100 samples. Yeah. Amazing. The larger your sample size, directly proportional to the worse your the worse your grain is. Cool. Let's keep that at default. This is perfect. All right, I'm going to turn off my adjustment layer. So, now we'll just be looking at what looks like a gray solid and we're going to render this out.

[Music] Let's take a look. So, I'm going to go to where I rendered it. Elements. It made the folder called grain. Excellent. There it is. With the version number of the project came from grain. Again, After Effects is like, "Oh, is this ASUS 2065?" No, it is not. We want to preserve RGB. Or again, maybe it's safer if I do this, which is the exact same as preserving RGB in this case. Hit okay.

So, we've got our grain. Let's test it out. So, I'm going to drag and drop these into our main work here. At first, it's going to cover everything. Need to make sure it goes to linear light. The first thing we should do is take a screenshot of what the original plate looks like. And that's why I have the plate sitting down here below the D noiseis in the main work. I have it there as a reference so that I can quickly compare between the D noiseis version and the original plate. I'm going to take a screenshot and then go back to our D noiseis and then put on our grain that we just rendered out and brought back in. You will immediately see that our grain is certainly way more intense. Take ours and we'll start dialing back its opacity. Yeah, I'll try 50%. I'm toggling plate grain versus ours. That's actually looking pretty similar.

Obviously, it's dancing. It's It's in a new location. Um, that's because it's not going to match perfectly because we aren't pulling the exact grain. Grain's always every frame it's different. So, but it did a great job of matching that grain. And we could even check each channel. I can still use that same screenshot comparing the two. And honestly, it's looking pretty great in all three channels. So, that's great.

That's super promising.